4/21/25, AM |
knowledge-kitchen / me
Amos Bloomberg
Thursday, 17 April .
As a professor who practices what he preaches, Amos has over 20 yearsʼ experience building
things, both practical and whimsical. His most rewarding professional validation to date was
standing on a crowded NYC subway surreptitiously looking down at a seated passenger reading a
Metro newspaper article about himself and his work. That happened only once, though Amos has
been responsible for the research, strategy, design, and implementation of dozens of popular
apps, websites, and marketing campaigns on behalf of a wide range of clients, from the UN to
Facebook and Microsoft, from Amex to Juicy Couture, from MTV to Amazon, and on to small non-
profits and tech startups whose names are rightly forgotten to history. His own award-winning
non-commercial creative work has been featured in Forbes, the New York Times, the Village
Voice, and Wired, etc, etc.
Amos began programming games on his dadʼs computer for fun at the age of 12. He now holds a
Masterʼs from NYUʼs Interactive Telecommunications Program, and received the first-ever
Bachelorʼs in Brain & Cognitive Sciences from the University of Rochester.
Contact Info
Location
Physical
1/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Professor Amos Bloomberg
Computer Science
New York University
251 Mercer Street, Room 424
New York, NY 10012
Open office hours
Make an appointment to chat
Academia Experience
New York University, Department of Computer Science
– , New York, NY
, Clinical Professor
, Clinical Associate Professor
– , Clinical Assistant Professor
– , Adjunct Faculty
Training the next generation of engineers, designers, and hackers. Teaching courses in software
engineering, agile software development & devops, computer science, web design, database
design and implementation, computer programming, and physical computing. Award-winning
innovation in teaching and student engagement. Research in education automation.
New York University, School of Professional Studies
– , New York, NY
Adjunct Faculty
Training professionals of all levels of seniority in intensive crash courses focused on web,
databases, and application development.
New York University, Department of Neural Science
–
Teaching Assistant / Lab Assistant
2/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Dissecting brains, playing with rats, helping students understand the links between psychology,
cognition, and neural science.
Industry Experience
Founder / Chief,
September - Present, New York, NY
Wiki streets is a social mapping application used by individuals and organizations to create quick
maps with markers, notes, photos, and videos. Social features allow real-time collaboration,
commenting, forking, and more. Support for open technologies, including Markdown, Geo JSON,
and future integration plans for Open Street Map, Activity Pub, and more. Free and open source for
all.
Founder / Chief, Plastic Past LLC
December – Present, New York, NY
Principal of a high-end interactive design consultancy advising clients in research, business
analysis, user research, experience design, service design, and the goal-oriented engineering of
apps and ecosystems. Building relationships with a wide range of clients, from direct work with
Fortune 500ʼs, to vendor work for larger tech firms and agencies, and boots trapping with small
start-ups and cultural institutions. Recent clients include CBRE, Imagine Learning, Convene, and
the tourism board of Iceland.
Award-winning client work. In-house “experimental” work has been featured in the The New York
Times, New York Magazine, Metro, and Time Out New York.
Co-Founder/Director of Product, Esprsso Inc.
May – April (1 year), New York, NY
Co-founder and chief technical architect of Esprsso, the first-of-its kind social feed and news
reader based on RSS technology, designed to give you a personalized ‘shotʼ of the news. As
featured in New York Law Review.
Co-Founder/Toy Designer, Codependent Designs
May – April , New York, NY
Inventor of Needies, interactive plush dolls inspired by codependent, high-maintenance
relationships. As featured in , , Ad Week, Metro, and the Canada National
3/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Post.
Technology Consultant, United Nations
November – May , New York, NY
Primary consultant on two projects in Peacekeeping Operations to implement a major push by the
organization to develop new technologies for information sharing and knowledge management.
Software Engineer, Microsoft
October – September , Redmond, WA
Lead interface designer and developer for Digital Broadcast Manager, the first integrated e-
commerce solution for securing, managing, and streaming digital audio and video.
Software Engineer, Comet Systems Inc
September – August , New York, NY
Lead interface engineer for Comet Cursor, a deceptively simple product which we developed, at
that time, into the most successful web browser plugin in the history of the internet.
Education
Masterʼs, Interactive Telecommunications, New York University,
Bachelor s Brain & Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester,
Hackley School, Tarrytown, NY,
Interests and Activities
Winemaking
Master vintner at Château Bloomberg.
Movement
Walking, running, biking, skiing. On occasion, I break out the acoustic unicycle, but mostly I ride
my electric unicycle.
Domestic construction
4/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Arts & Crafts tile patterns
Sauna design
Kitchen design
Music
Studied classical guitar for many years, first with private instruction from a professor from the
Manhattan School of Music and then at the Eastman School of Music. Years ago, I used to
occasionally release experimental concept albums, including Normal Music For Strange People
and The Complete Dance Party.
Service
Coach, American Youth Soccer Organization (AYSO), Region 455. September - present
Member, Governance Policy Committee, NYU Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences.
October - March
Member, Contract Faculty Policy Committee, NYU Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences. October - December
Advisor, Bicycle & Pedestrian Committee, village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY. - Present.
Campaign Manager, Andy Maskinʼs run for Governor of Kansas
Awards & Honors
Teaching Innovation Award for my design of the Agile Software Development & Dev Ops
course.
NYU Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences,
February
Gold Best Award for work with M&C Saatchi on Icelandʼs Let It Out!
Effie Awards,
June
Tolley Medal for work with SS+K and Mark Morris Dance Group on Moving Through Glass
Syracuse University School of Education, 2 June
Merit Award for UX/UI work with SS+K and Mark Morris Dance Group on Moving Through
Glass
The One Show,
13 May
5/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Honorable Mention for Moving Through Glass
User Experience Awards,
16 November
Silver Pencil Award for UX/UI work with SS+K for AFL-CIOʼs Work Connects Us All
The One Show,
FWA Site of the Day for AFL-CIOʼs Work Connects Us All
FWA,
27 March
Best Social Media Campaign with Profero for Lufthansa s My Sky Status
Sim pli flying Awards,
4 October
Best of NYC®: Best Real-Life Video Game Award for Pac-Manhattan
Village Voice,
Winner, Photo of The Year
The Saab Network,
Press
Croft, Jay. Feeling frustrated? Then scream your head off in Icelandʼs vast wilderness CNN,
18 July
Jardine, Alexandra. Iceland is Releasing Your Screams of Lockdown Frustration All Around the
Country
Ad Age,
16 July
Olson, Matthew. Why Pac-Man Still Delights Us 40 Years Later
US Gamer,
26 May
6/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
The UX of Parkinson s Disease
Invision App Blog,
11 August
The UX of Parkinson s Disease
True North Podcast,
11 August
Abbasi, Jennifer. Augmented Reality Takes Parkinson Disease Dance Therapy Out Of The
Classroom
The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) Volume 317, Number 4,
24 January
Beer, Jeff. A New Google Glass App Uses Augmented Reality, And Dance, to Help Parkinson s
Sufferers
Fast Co Create,
30 June
Chang, Geoffrey. Save The Last Dance For Google Glass
Parkinson s Life,
25 June
Eugenios, Jillian. Thereʼs Finally Something Awesome To Do With Google Glass
CNN Money,
10 June
After Rochester, Alumni Reflect
Campus Times,
30 October
Apparelʼs Top Innovators: Juicy Couture
Apparel Mag,
May
7/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
Patel, Kunar. Your Social-Media Vacation Message System
Advertising Age,
26 October
Morrissey, Brian. Lufthansa Tool Takes Twitter to 30,000 Feet
Ad Week,
12 October
Cashmore, Pete. Now Planes are Tweeting Too
Mashable,
10 Oct
Get Your Own Lilʼ Lohan
College Candy,
24 November
Hebert, Neal. My Lil Lohan is Facebook Dynamite
The Daily Reveille,
14 November
Marghitu, Stefanie and Barnett, John. My Lil Lohan
Indiana Daily Student,
12 November
Navigate NYC: Which Route Is Faster
Time Out New York,
8 November
Rundle, Michael. Even The Subwayʼs On Facebook
Metro,
28 August
Kabak, Benjamin. subways are in ur facebook, updatinʼ ur transit alerts
Second Avenue Sagas,
23 August
Chan, Sewell. A Site Where Subway Riders Can Compare Notes (And Complain, Too)
New York Times,
23 August
Facebook To Reduce Rage, Increase Hookups On Subway
New York Magazine,
8/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
22 August
Shryock, Ricci. An Interactive Toy Story by Ricci Shryock
Metropolis,
24 April
Talcott, Kelly. Keeping Up With Content From Blogs
New York Law Journal,
17 April
Holloway, Daniel. Misfit Toys
Metro,
16 February
Hoffman, Leah. The Needies Need You To Need Them
Forbes,
23 December
Five Networked Art Projects
Forbes,
4 November
Ziegler, Chris. Tickle Me Elmo With An Inferiority Complex
OC Weekly,
24 June
Teen People Hot List
Teen People,
10 June
Taher, Abul. Pac-Manhattan
The Evening Standard,
12 May
Manhattan Gets Pac-Man
Wired,
10 May
9/10
4/21/25, AM Amos Bloomberg | Knowledge Kitchen
St. John, Warren. Quick, After Him: Pac-Man Went Thataway
New York Times,
9 May
Peale, Ean. Apple Corps Goes to the Farm
The New York Times,
30 September
Copyright
© . All rights reserved.
10/10