W A
ILLIAM RTHUR
Curriculum Vitae
Research Interests
Computer security, computer architecture, compilers, system security, network security, hardware/
software co-design, software engineering and test, engineering education.
Education
University of Michigan – Ann Arbor
Ph. D. Computer Science and Engineering
Thesis Title: Control-Flow Security Advisor: Todd Austin
University of Michigan – Ann Arbor
M. S. Computer Science and Engineering GPA: 3.96 / 4.0
University of Michigan – Flint
B. S. Computer Science with High Honors GPA: 4.0 / 4.0
Teaching
Courses:
Fall - Winter EECS 183: Elementary Programming Concepts 650-1000 Students
Winter – Fall EECS 370: Introduction to Computer Organization 350-650 Students
Spring ECEG 6514: Fault-Tolerant Computing (Vising Faculty, Addis Ababa Institute of
Technology, Ethiopia) 3 Students
Seminars:
Fall Center for Research on Learning and Teaching in Engineering (CRLT-Engineering)
Seminar: Generating an Active Learning Plan
CRLT-Engineering Instructional Aide Teaching Orientation (EIATO) Seminar: Handling
Office Hours
CRLT-Engineering Engineering Graduate Student Instructor Teaching Orientation
(EGSITO) Seminar: Handling Office Hours
Winter CRLT-Engineering Seminar: Maximizing Student Learning During Office Hours
CRLT EIATO Seminar: Handling Office Hours
Service:
-Present Chief Program Advisor – CS-LSA
Computer Science Program Committee
-18 Academic Advisor, CS-Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering Committee on Diversity and Outreach, co-chair
Computer Science and Engineering Committee liaison for Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion to the College of Engineering.
2260 Hayward Street – Ann Arbor, MI 48109
3640 Bob and Betty Beyster
1|3
Multidisciplinary Design Program: Faculty Mentor – Union Pacific Partner-Sponsored
Project student engineering team.
-17 Multidisciplinary Design Program: Faculty Mentor – Guardian Industries Partner-
Sponsored Project student engineering team.
CRLT-Engineering: Engineering Teaching Consultant
CRLT-Engineering: Teaching Orientation Practice Teaching Session Fac il it at or
CRLT-Engineering: Engineering Teaching Consultant
CRLT-Engineering: Teaching Orientation Experienced Instructor Panel
CRLT-Engineering: Teaching Orientation Practice Teaching Session Fac il it at or
CRLT-Engineering: Engineering Teaching Consultant
CRLT-Engineering: Teaching Orientation Practice Teaching Session Fac il it at or
Publications
William Arthur, Sahil Madeka, Reetuparna Das, Todd Austin, “Locking Down Insecure In direction with
Hardware-Based Control-Data Isolation,” in the Proceedings of the International Symposium on
Microarchitecture (MICRO), December .
William Arthur, Ben Mehne, Reetuparna Das, Todd Austin, “Getting in Control of Your Control Flow
with Control-Data Isolation,” in the Proceedings of the International Symposium on Code
Generation and Optimization (CGO), February .
William Arthur, Biruk Mammo, Ricardo Rodriguez, Todd Austin, Valeria Bertacco, “Schnauzer:
Scalable Profiling for Likely Security Bug Sites,” in the Proceedings of the International Symposium
on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO), February .
Michael E. Farmer, William Arthur, “Study of the Phenomenology of DDOS Network Attacks in Phase
Space,” in the Proceedings of the International Conference on Security and Cryptography (SECRYPT),
July .
William Arthur, “Control-Flow Security,” Ph. D. Thesis, EECS Department – CSE, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, May .
Work Experience
University of Michigan, Lecturer IV – Present
• Teaching and course development in Computer Science.
• Chief Program Advisor – Computer Science – College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
University of Michigan, Lecturer III –
• Teaching and course development in Computer Science.
• Committee on Diversity and Outreach – co-chair
• Department Liaison for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion to the College of Engineering
University of Michigan, Graduate Student Instructor –
• EECS 183: Elementary Programming Concepts – Primary Instructor
2260 Hayward Street – Ann Arbor, MI 48109
3640 Bob and Betty Beyster
2|3
• EECS 183: Elementary Programming Concepts – Graduate Student Instructor
• EECS 370: Intro to Computer Organization – Graduate Student Instructor
• Taught undergraduate students through lecture, discussion, and office hours.
• Performed administrative duties including creating course content, course, and staff team
management.
University of Michigan, Engineering Teaching Consultant –
• Provided one-on-one consultations with individual Graduate Student Instructors and
Undergraduate Instructional Aides on teaching-related issues.
• Performed classroom observations and feedback sessions for Graduate Student Instructors and
Undergraduate Instructional Aides.
Addis Ababa Institute of Technology, Ethiopia, Visiting Faculty
• ECEG 6514: Fault-Tolerant Computing
• Administered course for AAi T Ph. D. cohort
University of Michigan, Graduate Student Research Assistant –
• Performed research activities in the areas of computer security, computer architecture, compilers,
hardware software co-design, and software test.
• Mentored undergraduate students in research through the Summer Undergraduate Research in
Engineering program.
Self-Employed, State of Michigan Licensed Journeyman Electrician –
• Resolved crisis electrical maintenance issues from service calls.
• Performed power distribution wiring maintenance and construction activities.
Ford Motor Company, Journeyman Industrial Electrician –
• Conducted Test Engineering and management of test processes and equipment for automotive
transmissions operations.
• Taught apprentice Electricians for the Ford Motor Company bona fide apprenticeship program.
• Performed software maintenance and troubleshooting of industrial control software and systems.
U. S. Manufacturing Corporation, Engineering Technician –
• Designed mechanical systems including gauging and material handling systems.
• Performed technical writing and production of technical documents.
• Performed various engineering tasks pertaining to waste treatment, industrial operations, and
metallurgical testing.
Service
Served as external reviewer for the following conferences: ASPLOS '12, '13; CGO '13; DATE '12,'13,
'16; DSN '14; HPCA '12, '14; ISCA '12, '13, '14; MICRO '11, '12; DAC '16;
Awards and Honors
College of Engineering Thomas M. Sawyer, Jr. Teaching Award.
Rackham Merit Fellowship, University of Michigan
Nominee, Maize and Blue Award, University of Michigan - Flint
Angell Scholar, University of Michigan - Flint
Three-time recipient Certificate of Appreciation Award, Ford Motor Company - Van Dyke T. P.
Product Quality Award, Ford Motor Company - Sterling Axle Assembly Plant
2260 Hayward Street – Ann Arbor, MI 48109
3640 Bob and Betty Beyster
3|3