carole-jean wu is a director of ai research at meta, where she leads the systems and machine learning
research team. she is a founding member and a vice president of mlcommons – a non-profit
organization that aims to accelerate machine learning innovations for the benefits of all. dr. wu also
serves on the mlcommons board as a director, chaired the mlperf recommendation benchmark
advisory board, and co-chaired for mlperf inference. prior to meta/facebook, dr. wu was a professor
with tenure at asu. she earned her m.a. and ph.d. from princeton university and b.sc. from cornell
university.
dr. wu’s expertise sits at the intersection of computer architecture and machine learning. her work spans
across datacenter infrastructures and edge systems with a focus on performance, energy efficiency and
sustainability. she is passionate about pathfinding and tackling system challenges to enable efficient,
scalable, and environmentally-sustainable ai technologies.
dr. wu's work has been recognized with several awards, including ieee micro top picks and acm / ieee
best paper awards. she is the recipient of nsf career award, cra-wp anita borg early career award
distinction of honorable mention, ieee young engineer of the year award, science foundation arizona
bisgrove early career scholarship, and facebook ai infrastructure mentorship award. she is in the hall of
fame of isca, hpca and iiswc. dr. wu was the program co-chair of the conference on machine
learning and systems (mlsys ), the program chair of the ieee international symposium on
workload characterization (iiswc ), and the editor for the ieee micro special issue on
environmentally sustainable computing. she currently serves on the acm sigarch/sigmicro cares
committee, as well as the national academies of sciences, engineering, medicine workshop planning
committee.
[google scholar] [dblp]
research
my work sits in the intersection of computer architecture and machine learning with the following emphasis:
system design and optimization for deep learning
learning-based approaches for system design and optimization
high-performance and energy-efficient heterogeneous cpu+gpu systems
performance quality modeling and energy efficiency optimization for mobile systems
memory system optimization
sustainable computing via carbon-efficient system design and management, energy harvesting and temperature-
aware management for portable electronics
my work has been featured at national academy of engineering's the bridge, the computer architecture
podcast ep16: sustainability in a post-ai world, tech @ meta on understanding computing's carbon
footprint and designing low-carbon computers, the nature magazine: light bulbs have energy ratings
— so why can’t ai chatbots?, and by bloomberg green, the atlantic, and the hipeac blog: to minimize
computing’s carbon footprint, the first step is to quantify lifecycle emissions, as well as by stanford's
mlsys seminar: designing ai systems for recommender systems and beyond, by mlperf: inference
v0.5 launch results and maskrcnn2go for mlperf.
if you are interested in learning more about designing computer systems for sustainability, check out my
course offered at hipeac's summer school. the course includes
1. understanding the lay of the land: computing's environmental footprint;
2. carbon impact of ai;
3. carbon modeling and design optimization;
4. (carbon)-efficient edge computing;
5. carbon optimization at-scale: carbon-aware datacenter computing.
and, check out socio-technological challenges and opportunities: paths forward from isca-
panel - the microprocessor at 50: societal challenge, sustainable ai: environmental implications,
challenges and opportunities from mlsys- , designing computer systems for sustainability from
isca- 's panel, and my thoughts on inclusive approaches to technological innovations: think globally,
design deliberately: taking an inclusive approach to innovation.
recent publications
[national academy of engineering the bridge winter edition] scaling ai sustainably
carole-jean wu, bilge acun, ramya raghavendra, kim hazelwood.
[hpca- ] revisiting reliability in large-scale machine learning research clusters
apostolos kokolis, michael kuchnik, john hoffman, adithya kumar, parth malani, faye ma, zachary devito,
shubho sengupta, kalyan saladi, carole-jean wu.
[hpca- ] cordoba: carbon-efficient optimization framework for computer systems
mariam elgamal, doug carmean, elnaz ansari, okay zed, ramesh peri, srilatha manne, udit gupta, gu-yeon
wei, david brooks, gage hills, carole-jean wu.
best paper award honorable mention
early version
[acm sigarch computer architecture today] designing computer systems for sustainability
carole jean-wu, tamar eilam, babak falsafi, gage hills, srilatha manne.
[nature magazine] light bulbs have energy ratings — so why can’t ai chatbots?
sasha luccioni, boris gamazaychikov, sara hooker, regis pierrard, emma strubell, yacine jernite, carole-jean
wu.
[ieee micro- ] beyond efficiency: scaling ai sustainably
carole-jean wu, bilge acun, ramya raghavendra, kim hazelwood.
special issue: the past, present, and future of warehouse-scale computing
honors and awards
cordoba: carbon-efficient optimization framework for computer systems selected for
the ieee hpca best paper award honorable mention
mad max beyond single-node: enabling large machine learning model acceleration on
distributed systems selected for ieee micro top picks honorable mention
carbon explorer: a holistic approach for designing carbon aware datacenters selected for
ieee micro top picks honorable mention
mp-rec: hardware-software co-design to enable multi-path recommendation selected for
ieee micro top picks honorable mention
isca paper selected for inclusion in 25-year retrospective: - :
mlperf inference benchmark (retrospective: mlperf)
one of the 98 papers (out of 1077) selected as one of the most significant and exciting
papers from the acm/ieee international symposium on computer architecture from .
act: designing sustainable computer systems with an architectural carbon modeling tool
selected for ieee micro top picks
towards fair federated recommendation learning: characterizing the inter-dependence
of system and data heterogeneity selected for acm conference on recommender systems best
paper award finalist
chasing carbon: the elusive environmental footprint of computing selected for ieee micro
top picks
mlperf inference benchmark selected for ieee micro top picks (article: the vision behind
mlperf: understanding ai inference performance)
deeprecsys: a system for optimizing end-to-end at-scale neural recommendation
inference selected for ieee micro top picks honorable mention
distinction of honorable mention of the cra anita borg early career award
facebook ai infrastructure mentorship award
genetic improvement for gpu code selected for acm/ieee icse genetic improvement on
software best paper award
designing a temperature model to understand the thermal challenges of portable
c ti pl tf l t df ieeeithermb tp a d
computing platforms selected for ieee itherm best paper award
nsf career award
ieee young engineer of the year award
architectural thermal energy harvesting opportunities for sustainable computing selected
for ieee best of computer architecture letters
sfaz bisgrove career award
intel phd fellowship
characterization and dynamic mitigation of intra-application cache interference
nominated for ieee ispass best paper nomination
princeton excellence in leadership award
professional service
acm sigarch/sigmicro cares committee, - present.
journal editor
ieee micro magazine special issue on environmentally sustainable computing, -23.
executive committee
ieee technical committee on computer architecture (tcca), -18.
steering committee
hotcarbon: workshop on sustainable computer systems, - present.
ieee intl. symp. on performance analysis of systems and software (ispass), -23.
ieee intl. symp. on workload characterization (iiswc), -23.
award selection committee
ieee tcca young computer architect award, -23.
technical program chair
conference on machine learning and systems (mlsys), .
ieee intl. symp. on workload characterization (iiswc), .
technical program committee
hpca ; -17; hpca industry track
hotcarbon ,
isca -21; isca industry track
mlsys -21
iiswc ; -17
micro ; -17
journal editorial board
ieee micro -23
ieee computer architecture letters -22
cra-widening participation (wp) career mentoring workshop
finding a research topic with soha hassoun, .
strategies for your career with amber settle, .
selected publications
industry initiatives and open source software
mentorship