Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
The Ohio State University
Scott Laboratory, Room: E510
201 W 19th Street
43215 OH, United States of America
Professional Experience
Aug - Current Assistant Professor
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Electrical and Computer Engineering
The Ohio State University
Sep - July Postdoctoral Research Associate
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Princeton University
Education
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Maryland
Doctor of Philosophy,
• Dissertation Title: Estimation and Control of Nonlinear System: Model-based and Model-free
Approaches
• Adviser: Dr. Derek A. Paley
Department of Electronics and Telecommunication, Jadavpur University
Bachelor of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering,
Research Interests
I am broadly interested in designing safety-critical controller for robotic automation from the noisy
sensor data and resource constraints. Some of my past and current research interests are
• learning dynamical systems with unknown parameters,
• nonlinear estimation and stochastic control,
• data-driven reduced-order modeling and control of complex systems,
• transfer operator based approach to dynamical systems,
• autonomous tracking and search using drones.
Scientific Research Experience
Sep - Current Postdoctoral Research Associate
Control design with learning on the fly
Adviser: Dr. Clarence W. Rowley, Mechanical and Aerospace
Engineering,
Princeton University.
Jan - May Graduate Research Assistant
Estimation and Control of A Nonlinear System Using Mixture-Model and
Transfer Operators
Adviser: Dr. Derek A. Paley, Aerospace Engineering,
University of Maryland, College Park.
Curriculum Vitae, Debdipta Goswami,1
Book Chapters
1. D. Goswami and D. A. Paley, “Global Bi linear iz ation and Reach ability Analysis of Control-
Affine Nonlinear Systems”, The Koopman Operatorin Systemsand Control: Concepts, Method-
ologies, and Applications, Springer International Publishing, .
Selected Journal Publications
1. D. Goswami, A. Riggins and D. A. Paley, “Data-driven prediction of urban micro mobility
A study of dockless e-scooters”, accepted for publication in IEEE Control Systems Magazine.
2. D. Goswami and D. A. Paley, Bi linear iz ation reach ability and optimal control of control-
affine nonlinear systems: a Koopman spectral approach”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic
Control, vol. 67, no. 6, pp. , Jun .
3. J. Lidard, D. Goswami, D. Snyder, G. Sedky, A. Jones, and D. A. Paley, “Output feedback
control for lift maximization of a pitching airfoil”, AIAA Journal of Guidance, Control, and
Dynamics, vol, 44, no. 3, pp. 587-594, Mar .
4. D. Goswami and D. A. Paley, “Non-Gaussian estimation and output feedback using the
Gaussian Mixture Kalman Filter”, AIAA Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
44, no. 1, pp. 15-24, Jan .
5. A. Wolek, S. Cheng, D. Goswami, and D. A. Paley, “Cooperative mapping and search over
an unknown occupancy graph using mutual information”, IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 5, pp. 1071-1078, Apr .
6. D. Goswami, E. Thackray and D. A. Paley, “Constrained Ulam Dynamic Mode Decom-
position: Approximation of the Perron-Frobenius Operator for deterministic and stochastic
systems”, IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol. 2, pp. 809-814, Oct .
7. S. Mukherjee, D. Goswami and S. Chatterjee, “A Lagrangian approach to modeling and
analysis of a crowd dynamics IEEE Transactions on Systems, Manand Cybernetics: Systems,
Vol. 45, Issue: 6, Jun , pp. 865-876.
8. S. Chatterjee, D. Goswami, S. Mukherjee and S. Das, “Behavioral Analysis of the Leader
Particle During Stagnation in a Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm”, Information Sci-
ences: Informatics and Computer Science Intelligent Systems Applications, Elsevier, Vol. 279,
Sep , pp. 18-36.
9. S. Das, D. Goswami, S. Chatterjee and S. Mukherjee “Stability and Chaos Analysis of A
Novel Swarm D yanam ics with Applications to Multi-agent Systems”, Engineering Applications
of Artificial Intelligence, Elsevier, Vol. 30, Apr , pp. 189-198.
Selected Conference Publications
1. D. Gurevich, D. Goswami, C. L. Fefferman, C. W. Rowley, “Optimal Control with Learning
on the Fly: System with Unknown Drift”, accepted for presentation in 4th Conference on
Learning for Dynamics and Control, L4DC , Stanford University.
2. D. Goswami, Artur Wolek, and Derek A. Paley,“Data-drivenestimationusingan Echo-State
Neural Network equipped with an Ensemble Kalman Filter”, In Proc. American Control
Conference, New Orleans, Louisiana, pp. 2543-2548
3. J. Lidard, D. Goswami, D. Snyder, G. Sedky, A. Jones, and D. A. Paley, “Output feedback
control for lift maximization of a pitching airfoil”, In Proc. AIAA Sci Tech, Orlando, Florida,
, number AIAA--1836, pp. 1-13.
4. D. Goswami and D. A. Paley, “Global bi linear iz ation and control l ability of control-affine
nonlinear systems: A Koopman spectral approach”, In Proc. IEEE Conference on Decision
and Control, Melbourne, Australia, , pp. 6107-6112.
5. D. Goswami and D. A. Paley, “Non-Gaussian estimation and observer-based feedback using
the Gaussian Mixture Kalmanand Extended Kalman Filters”, In Proc. 2017 American Control
Conference, Seattle, Washington, , pp. 4550-4555.
Curriculum Vitae, Debdipta Goswami,2
6. C. Saha, D. Goswami, S. Saha, A. Konar, A. Lekova, A. K. Nagar, “A novel gesture driven
Fuzzy interface system for car racing game IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems,
Aug 2-5, , Istanbul, Turkey.
Teaching Experience
Associate in Instruction, Mathematical Methods for Engineering Analysis
Spring
II (MAE 546), Princeton University
Associate in Instruction, Optimal Control and Estimation (MAE 546),
Fall
Princeton University
Co-instructor, Applied Nonlinear Control for Aerospace Systems
Spring
(ENAE 743)
Graduate Teaching Fellow, Random Processes for Communication and
Fall
Control (ENEE 620)
Fall - Spring Teaching Assistant, Electromagnetic Wave Propagation (ENEE 381)
Invited Talks
• “Data-Driven Identification and Control of Complex Systems with Guaranteed Performance”,
in Washington State University, Pullman, WA, Feb15,, Ohio State University, Columbus,
OH, Mar 10, , Auburn University, Auburn, AL, Apr 12, , Utah State University,
Logan, UT, Apr 14, .
• “Koopman Based Control: Bi linear iz ation Control l ability and Optimal Control of Control-
Affine Nonlinear Systems”, in Universit e catholique de Louvain, Louvain la Neuve, Aug 27,
.
Service
May Chair and Organizer Mini symposium at SIAM DS 21
Aug -May Graduate student member UMD ECE Department Council
Jun - Jul President ECE Graduate Student Association, UMD
August -June Vice-President of
ECEGSA, UMD
Academic Affairs
Apr - Mar Editorial assistant Automatica Editor Prof. Andr´e L. Tits
Honors and Awards
October Graduate Student Service Award from UMD ECE
May Outstanding Graduate Assistant Award from UMD Graduate School
Travel Award from Institute for Systems Research (ISR)
May Summer Research Fellowship from UMD Graduate School
May Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award from UMD ECE
May Future Faculty Fellowship from A. J. Clark School of Engineering
August Distinguished Graduate Fellowship from A. J. Clark School of Engineering
December University Gold Medal in Engineering from Jadavpur University
May WISE Fellowship from DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service)
References
Derek A. Paley, Willis H. Young Jr. Professor, Aerospace Engineering, University of Maryland,
College Park,
Clarence W. Rowley, Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,
P. S. Krishna prasad Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland,
College Park,
Andr´e L. Tits, Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College
Park,
Eyad H. Abed, Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College
Park,
Curriculum Vitae, Debdipta Goswami,3