Education ⋄ University of Maryland, College Park, MD.
Ph. D. in Electrical and Computer Eng., May
Dissertation Title: “Hierarchical Multithreading Architecture”
Adviser: Prof. Manoj Franklin GPA = 3.9/4.0
⋄ Cairo University, Egypt.
M. Sc. in Computer Engineering, July .
Thesis title: “A New Adaptive Genetic Algorithm”
⋄ Cairo University, Egypt.
B. Sc. in Computer Engineering, July .
Graduation Project: “Computer Chess”
Research ⋄ AI Support for Architecture
interests
⋄ Graphics Processing Units and other Hardware Accelerators
⋄ Memory hierarchy design for Heterogeneous Computing
⋄ Hardware-software interaction
Work ⋄ New York University (Sep - present)
experience Professor clinical with Computer Science Department, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences, NYU
⋄ New York University (Sep - Aug )
Associate Professor (clinical) with Computer Science Department, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences, NYU
⋄ New York University (Jan - May )
Adjunct Associate Professor with Computer Science Department, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences, NYU
⋄ Polytechnic Institute of New York University (Jan - Dec )
Research Associate Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department
⋄ Consultancy Work (-)
· Polytechnic Institute of NYU:
– Designing power-efficient supercomputer based on hybrid FPGA and general pur-
pose processors using switched networks.
– Architecture support for Trusted Platform Management for single core, multicore,
and manycore processors.
· Cairo Microsoft Innovation Center (CMIC):
Proposed and supervised research projects related to high-performance computing.
The projects I have contributed to are related to parallel iz ation and analysis of bioin-
formatics applications.
⋄ City University of New York - City College (Sep 04 - May 10)
Department of Electrical Engineering and the Computer Engineering program,
Assistant Professor (Sep 04 - Aug 09), then Adjunct Associate Professor (Sep 09 - May 10)
⋄ The George Washington University (Sep 03 - Jul 04)
Research Scientist with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Duties included directing two groups of graduate students:
Mohamed Zahran
· The first group did research on the specifications and performance of a parallel version
of the C language, called unified parallel C (UPC).
· The second group focused on re configurable architecture, and how to dynamically
reconfigure a device to adapt to program(s) behavior.
⋄ University of Maryland at College Park
· Research Assistant (Aug 99 - Aug 03):
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research topic: The Microarchitecture of Speculative Multi threaded Processors.
· Teaching Assistant (Aug 99 - May ):
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Assisted in teaching: Digital Logic Design, Computer Organization.
Duties: holding weekly recitation classes, office hours as well as grading
homework assignments and exams.
⋄ Cairo University, Egypt (Sep 97 - May 99)
Assistant Lecturer:
Teaching: C programming language, Digital Logic Design,
Computer Architecture, Software Engineering and Operating Systems.
⋄ American University in Cairo (AUC) (Spring 98)
Lecturer:
Center of Adult and Continuing Education (CACE),
Duties: Teaching computer architecture and assembly language programming course.
⋄ IBM Egypt (Summer 96)
Summer Intern:
Performance analysis and tuning of IBM RISC/6000.
⋄ AT&T Global Information System, Egypt
Summer Intern:
· (Summer 95): UNIX operating system and Unix Shell programming workshops, Data
communication and LAN and WAN concepts workshops.
· (Summer 94): Windows applications workshop, C programming language and Clipper
application workshops.
Honors and⋄ Elected IEEE Distinguished Contributor ()
Awards
⋄ ACM Distinguished Speaker ( )
⋄ Best poster award for CS and Mathematics, for my student Daniel Cohen on his research
work with me inthe41st Undergraduate Research Conference, Collegeof Artsand Science,
NYU, .
⋄ First place in ACM Student Research Competition with my undergraduate student Yi
(Louisa) Lu, held in conjunction with The International Symposium on Code Generation
and Optimization (CGO) .
⋄ Best Poster Award in Trusted Infrastructure Workshop (TIW), June .
⋄ First place in ACM Student Research Competition with my Ph. D student Bushra Ahsan,
held in the 18th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Tech-
niques (PACT) .
Mohamed Zahran
⋄ Elected Senior member of ACM.
⋄ Elected Senior member of IEEE.
⋄ Certificate of Recognition at City University of New York on the occasion of the “Salute to
Scholars” event in Dec in honor of outstanding scholarly achievements.
⋄ Top three nationwide (second place) in ACM Student Research Competition with my un-
der graduate student Jerry Backer, .
⋄ Awarded grant from IBM to attend 39th International Symposium on Microarchitecture
(MICRO), .
⋄ Awarded grant from ACM SIG ARCH for young faculties to attend International Conference
on Microarchitecture, held in Oregon, December .
⋄ Best paper award in International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD), San Jose, CA,
October, .
⋄ ACM SIG ARCH conference student grant award: ISCA/FCRC
⋄ Best Graduate student scientific talk in Electrical and Computer Engineering dept., Uni-
versity of Maryland, fall .
⋄ Honors with Distinction (First Place) in University of Maryland Graduate Research Inter-
action Day (GRID), .
⋄ Honors with Distinction at M. Sc (top 5), Cairo University, .
⋄ Honors with Distinction at B. Sc, Cairo University .
Publications Books:
· Mohamed Zahran, Heterogeneous Computing: Hardware and Software Perspectives,
ACM Books, ISBN: , .
Book Chapters:
· Bushra Ahsan and Mohamed Zahran, Cache Hierarchy for Manycore Processors, in
thebook Multicore Computing: Algorithms, Architectures, and Applications, Chapman
and Hall/CRC, Dec .
Refereed Papers:
1. D. Tantawy, M. Zahran and A. G. Wassal, PTcomp: Post-Training Compression
Technique for Generative Adversarial Networks, in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 9763-
9774, .
2. Dina Tantawy, Mohamed Zahran, Amr Wassal, A Survey on GAN Acceleration
Using Memory Compression Technique, Journal of Engineering and Applied Science,
, Springer Nature, .
3. Nick Green qui st Doruk Kili t cio g lu Mohamed Zahran and Anasse Bari, GPU Ac-
celerated Matrix Factorization for Recommend er Systems, the 6th IEEE International
Conference on Big Data Analytics (ICBDA ), March .
4. Antonio Mallia, Michal Sie d la cz ek Torsten Suel, and Mohamed Zahran , GPU-
Accelerated Decoding of Integer Lists, in The 28th ACM International Conference on
Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM), Beijing, China, November .
5. Tulsi Jain, Nitish Agarwal, and Mohamed Zahran, Performance Prediction for Mul-
tithreaded Applications, in The 2nd International Workshop on AI-assisted Design for
Architecture (AIDArc), to held in conjunction with the International Symposium on
Computer Architecture, June .
6. Mohamed Zahran and Marsha Berger, Parallel Computing At The Undergraduate
Level: Lessons Learned and Insights, in Workshop on Computer Architecture Educa-
tion Held in conjunction with 46th International Symposium on Computer Architec-
ture, June .
Mohamed Zahran
7. Mahmoud Khairy, Amr Wassal, and Mohamed Zahran, A survey of architectural
approaches for improving GPGPU performance, programm ability and heterogeneity,
Elsevier Journalof Parallel and Distributed Computing, Volume127, May2019, Pages
65-88.
8. Chris Quackenbush and Mohamed Zahran, Beyond Profiling, in The 1st Interna-
tional Workshop on AI-assisted Design for Architecture (AIDArc), to held in conjunc-
tion with the International Symposium on Computer Architecture, June .
9. Mahmoud Khairy , Mohamed Zahran, and Amr Wassal, SACAT: Streaming-Aware
Conflict-Avoiding Thrashing-Resistant GPGPU Cache Management Scheme, IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol 28, issue 6, June .
10. Numair Khan and Mohamed Zahran, Space-efficient Pointwise Computation of the
Distance Transform on GPUs, in 7th IEEE Workshop Parallel / Distributed Com-
puting and Optimization (PDCO ), in conjunction with 31st IEEE International
Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May .
11. Chris Rohlfs and Mohamed Zahran, Optimal Bandwidth Selection for Kernel Re-
gression Using a Fast Grid Search and a GPU, in 7th IEEE Workshop Parallel / Dis-
tributed Computing and Optimization (PDCO ), in conjunction with 31st IEEE
International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May .
12. M. Zahran, Heterogeneous Computing: Hereto Stay, ACM Queue magazine Nov/Dec
, also appears in Communications of the ACM magazine, March .
13. Mohamed Zahran, Brain-Inspired Machines What, Exactly, Are We Looking for?,
IEEE Pulse Magazine, March .
14. Mahmoud Khairy, Mohamed Zahran, and Amr G. Wassal, Efficient utilization of
GPGPU cache hierarchy, in the 8th Workshop on General-purpose processing using
GPUs held in conjunction with the 20th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles
and Practice of Parallel Programming, .
15. J. Rajendran, A. K. Kanu part hi M. Zahran, S. Addepalli, G. Ormazabal, and R.
Karri, Securing processors against insider attacks acircuit-microarchitectureco-design
approach, IEEE Design and Test of Computers Magazine, Vol 30, issue 2, Mar/Apr,
.
16. Arun K. Kanu part hi Mohamed Zahran, and Ramesh Karri, Architecture Supportfor
Dynamic Integrity Checking, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security,
Vol. 7, Issue 1, pp. 321-332, .
17. H. Chtioui, S. Niar Lamih, R. Ben-Atitallah, M. Zahran, Jl. Dekeyser, and M. Abid, A
Dynamic Hybrid Cache Coherency Protocol for Shared-Memory MPSo C Architectures,
International Journal of Computer Applications, Volume 47, Number 3, .
18. Corey Malone, Mohamed Zahran, and Ramesh Karri, Are Hardware Performance
Counters a Cost Effective Way for Integrity Checking of Programs?, The Sixth ACM
Workshop on Scalable Trusted Computing, October .
19. Artem Durytskyy, Mohamed Zahran, and Ramesh Karri, Improving Robustness of
GPUs by Making Use of Faulty Parts, Proc. International Conference on Computer
Design (ICCD11), October .
20. Mohamed Salah Souahi, Smail Niar, Mohamed Zahran, Mohamed Ben mohamed
Towards Dynamic Cache Block Placement for Multi-processor NUCA, IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Microelectronics, December .
21. Arun K. Kanu part hi Mohamed Zahran, and Ramesh Karri, Feasibility Study of Dy-
namic Trusted Platform Module, Proc. International Conference on Computer Design
(ICCD10), October .
22. Ahmed Youssef, Mohamed Zahran, Mohab Anis, and Mohamed Elmasry, On the
Power Management of Simultaneous Multithreading Processors, IEEE Transactions on
VLSI Systems, pp. 1243-1248, Vol. 18, August .
Mohamed Zahran
23. Mohamed Zahran and Sally A. Mc Kee, Global Management of Cache Hierarchies,
The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers CF 10 Italy, May2010.
24. Yufu Zhang, Ankur Sri vast ava and Mohamed Zahran, On-Chip Sensor Driven Ef-
ficient Thermal Profile Estimation Algorithms, ACM Transactions on Design Automa-
tion of Electronic Systems, Volume 15 , Issue 3, May .
25. Najla Alfaraj, H. Jonathan Chao, and Mohamed Zahran, NBC: Network-based
Cache Coherence Protocol for Multistage No Cs, in The International So C Design Con-
ference (ISOCC), .
26. Kim Hazelwood and Mohamed Zahran, Challenges and Opportunities at All Levels:
Interactions Among Operating Systems, Compilers, and Multicore Processors, ACM
SIGOPS Operating System Review. Volume 43, Issue 2. April .
27. Bushra Ahsan and Mohamed Zahran, Managing Off-Chip Bandwidth: A Case for
Bandwidth-Friendly Replacement Policy, in The2nd Workshopon Managed Multi-Core
Systems (MMCS’09), held in conjunction with ASPLOS .
28. Mohamed Zahran and Sally A. Mc Kee, Adaptive Block Placement Policy for Cache
Hierarchies , in 3rd Workshop on statistical and Machine learning approaches to AR-
chi tec ture s and compila Tion SMART 09 held in conjunction with Hi PEAC’09.
29. Bushra Ahsan and Mohamed Zahran, Cache Performance, System Performance,
and Off-Chip Bandwidth... Pick any Two, in 3rd workshop Interconnection Network
Architectures: On-Chip, Multi-Chip (INA-OCMC), held in conjunction with Hi PEAC
.
30. Yufu Zhang, Ankur Srivastava and Mohamed Zahran, Chip Level Thermal Profile
Estimation Using On-chip Temperature Sensors, Proc. International Conference on
Computer Design (ICCD08), October .
31. Mohamed Zahran, Cache Replacement Policy Revisited, in The Annual Duplicating,
De constructing and Debunking (WDDD)held in conjunction with the International
Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), .
32. Mohamed Zahran, Kursad Albay rak taro g lu and Manoj Franklin, Non-Inclusion
Property in Multi-Level Caches Revisited, in the International Journal of Computers
and Their Applications, Special Issue on Techniques and Architectures for High Per-
formance and Energy Efficient Computing Systems, Vol 14, Num 2, June .
33. Mohamed Zahran, Cache Hierarchy for 100 On-Chip Cores, Fifth Annual Boston
Area Architecture (BARC), Jan .
34. Mohamed Zahran, On Cache Blocks Behavior, in International Computer Engineer-
ing Conference (ICENCO), Dec .
35. Mohamed Zahranand Manoj Franklin, RHT:AContext-Based Return Address Pre-
dictor, in The International Conference on Computer Design (CDES’06), Las
Vegas, June .
36. Mohamed Zahran and Anasua Bhowmik, Bandwidth-Friendly Cache Hierarchy, in
The International Conference on Computer Design (CDES’06), Las Vegas, June
.
37. Mohamed Zahran and Anasua Bhowmik, Hybrid Compiler and Microarchitecture
Technique for Cache Traffic Optimization, in Interaction between Compilers and Com-
puter Architectures (INTERACT 9), Feb .
38. Francois Cantonnet, Yiyi Yao, Mohamed Zahran and Tarek El-Ghazawi, Produc-
tivity Analysis of the UPC Language, in 3rd International Workshop on Performance
Modeling, Evaluation, and Optimization of Parallel and Distributed Systems (PMEO-
PDS), to be held in conjunction with the International Parallel and Distributed Pro-
cessing Symposium (IPDPS ).
Mohamed Zahran
39. Mohamed Zahran and Manoj Franklin, Dynamic Thread Resizing for Speculative
Multi threaded Processors, in International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD),
San Jose, CA, October, . (BEST PAPER AWARD)
40. Mohamed Zahran, Manoj Franklin and Renju Thomas, Confidence Estimation for
Register Value Communication in Speculative Multi threaded Architectures, in first value
prediction workshop (VPW1), held in conjunction with the 30th Annual International
Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), San Diego, California, .
41. Mohamed Zahran, On Cache Memory Hierarchy for Chip-Multiprocessor, in MEDEA
workshop held in conjunction with PACT Conference, Charlottesville, Virginia,
. Also Appeared in ACM Computer Architecture News, Vol 31, No. 1, March
.
42. Mohamed Zahran and Manoj Franklin, Return Address Prediction in Speculative
Multi threaded Environments, in Int’l Conference on Hi-Performance Computing Hi PC’02),
Bangalore, India, .
43. Mohamed Zahran and Manoj Franklin, A Feasibility Study of Hierarchical Multi-
threading, in International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS
), Marriott Marina, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, .
44. Mohamed Zahran and Manoj Franklin, Hierarchical Multi-threading For Exploit-
ing Parallelism at Multiple Granular i ties Workshopon MULTITHREADEDEXECU-
TION, ARCHITECTURE and COMPILATION (MTEAC-5), Austin, Texas, .
45. Mohamed Zahran, Ashraf Abdel-Wahab and Samir Shaheen, Adaptive Genetic Al-
gorithm for Multiprocessor Scheduling, poster presentation at the Genetic and Evolu-
tionary Computation Conference (GECCO), Orlando, .
Refereed Posters, Abstracts, Invited Papers, and Technical Reports:
1. Marcelo Pias, Brett Becker, Qiao Xiang, Mohamed Zahran, and Monica Anderson,
Should Quantum Processor Design be Considered a Topic in Computer Architecture
Education? In Proceedings of the 53rd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer
Science Education V. 2 (SIGCSE ).
2. Mohamed Zahran, The Future of High-Performance Computing, 17th International
Computer Engineering Conference (ICENCO), pp 129 - 134, (Invited Paper).
3. M. Zahran, Multicore processors: Status quo and future directions, in 10th Interna-
tional Computer Engineering Conference (ICENCO), Dec (Invited Paper).
4. Yi (Louisa) Lu and Mohamed Zahran, Unleashing the Power of General Purpose
Graphics Processing Units, poster at ACM Students Research Competition, held in
Conjunction with The International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimiza-
tion, FL, (Winner of ACM SRC, First Prize).
5. Arun K. Kanu part hi Mohamed Zahran, and Ramesh Karri, On-Chip Dynamic
Trusted Platform Module, Trusted Infrastructure Workshop (TIW), June , Pitts-
burgh, PA, (Best Poster Award).
6. Bushra Ahasan and Mohamed Zahran, A Hybrid Compiler-Architecture Technique
to Manage Off-Chip Traffic for Multicore Chips, poster at ACM Students Research
Competition, held in Conjunction with The 18th International Conference on Parallel
Architecture and Compilation Techniques, NC, (Winner of ACM SRC, First
Prize).
7. Mohamed Zahran and Sally A. Mc Kee, Enterprise-Like Cache Hierarchy Manage-
ment in the Manycore Era, position abstract, ACM SIGPLAN Workshop on Memory
Systems Performance and Correctness (MSPC) held in conjunction with ASPLOS,
March, .
Mohamed Zahran
8. Bushra Ahsan, Fatma Omara and Mohamed Zahran, Chip Multiprocessor: Chal-
lenges and Opportunities, INFOS . (Invited Paper)
9. Jerry Backerand Mohamed Zahran, The Effect of Memory Bandwidth on Processor
Performance, poster at Richard Tapia Conference, FL (Winner of ACM SRC
Grand Final).
10. Bushra Ahasan and Mohamed Zahran, Cache Improvement Techniques Reconsid-
ered: A Write-Buffer Case Study, poster at Richard Tapia Conference, FL .
11. A. Bhowmik and M. Zahran, Cache Traffic Optimization, Computer Science and
Automation, Indian Institute of Science, India, , IISc-CSA-TR--1.
12. Mohamed Zahran, On Cache Memory Hierarchy for Chip-Multiprocessor, ACM
Computer Architecture News, Vol 31, No. 1, March .
Presentations
& Talks
1. Artificial Intelligence Leaps in Digital Banking, University of Cranfield, UK, distin-
guished speaker, May .
2. Artificial Intelligence Leaps and Financial Applications, University of Cranfield, UK,
distinguished speaker, November .
3. AI Support for Computer Architecture, SEMINAR IN ADVANCES IN COMPUTING
University of South Carolina (Uof SC), September .
4. AI in the Middle East and North Africa: visions and realities, panel organized by AI
for Good and UN, June .
5. AI Support for Architecture: Challenges and Opportunities, AMD Research July2020.
6. Toward Exascale Machine: Challenges and Opportunities, IBMT. J. Watsonlab, April
.
7. Architecture Support for Big Data, Bloomberg, November .
8. Panelat IBM Research Workshopon Architectures for Cognitive Computing and Dat-
acenters, IBM T. J. Watson lab , October .
9. Heterogeneous Computing: Hardware and Software Perspective, ACM App li cat ive
June .
10. Hardware Advances for the Big Data Era, Centerfor Data Sciences, New York Univer-
sity, November .
11. Off-Chip Bandwidth: The New Wall in The Multicore Era, Computer and Information
Sciences Departmental seminar series, University of Delaware, March .
12. Multicore Chips and The Green Revolution, IT Symposium by Uptime Institute, April
.
13. Off-Chip Bandwidth: The New Wallin The Multicore Era, Intel-VSSAD, Hudson, MA,
May .
14. Adaptive Block Placement Policyfor Cache Hierarchies in SMART’09, heldinconjunc-
tion with Hi PEAC’09.
15. Cache Performance, System Performance, and Off-Chip Bandwidth... Pick any Two,
INA-OCMC, held in conjunction with Hi PEAC’09.
16. Enterprise-Like Cache Hierarchy Management in the Manycore Era, ACM SIGPLAN
Workshopon Memory Systems Performance and Correctness(MSPC)heldinconjunc-
tion with ASPLOS, March, .
17. Attacking The Von-Neumann Bottleneck: Cache Hierarchy in The Chip Multiprocessor
Era, as part of the departmental seminar series of Fall , the ECE/CS dept of
Polytechnic University.
Mohamed Zahran
18. Attacking The Von-Neumann Bottleneck: Cache Hierarchy in The Chip Multiprocessor
Era, as partof the departmental seminar series of Fall , the CSdept, university of
Massachusetts at Amherst.
19. Cache Replacement Policy Revisited, The Annual Workshop on Duplicating, Decon-
structing, and Debunking (WDDD)held in conjunction with the International Sympo-
sium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), .
20. Attacking the Von-Neumann Bottleneck: Smart and Scalable Cache Hierarchy in The
Chip Multiprocessor Era, IBM T. J. Watson, Feb .
21. Computer Hardware: A Different Perspective, keynote speech 2nd International Com-
puter Engineering Conference (ICENCO), Dec .
22. RHT: A Context-Based Return Address Predictor, The International Conference
on Computer Design (CDES’06), Las Vegas, June .
23. Bandwidth-Friendly Cache Hierarchy, The 2006 International Conference on Computer
Design (CDES’06), Las Vegas, June .
24. Chip Multithreading: Issues and Challenges, part of the departmental seminar series
of fall in the ECE dept, university of Massachusetts at Amherst.
25. Cache Traffic Optimization and Cache on Demand System, at a meeting at NSF with
CSR program directory Prof. Peter Varman, June .
26. Hybrid Compiler and Microarchitecture Technique for Cache Traffic Optimization, INTERACT-
9 (Interaction between Compilers and Computer Architectures), Feb .
27. Confidence Estimation for Register Value Communication in Speculative Multi threaded
Architectures, first value prediction workshop (VPW1), held in conjunction with the
30th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), San Diego,
California, .
28. Speculative Multithreading... The Future of Microprocessors, Electrical and Computer
Engineering Graduate Students Association ECE GS A Graduate Student Seminar,
Fall , BEST SCIENTIFIC TALK AWARD
29. Microprocessors... Can We Make Further Progress, University of Maryland Graduate
Research Interaction Day (GRID), Spring , BEST TALK AWARD
30. On Cache Memory Hierarchy for Chip-Multiprocessor, MEDEA workshop heldincon-
junction with PACT, Virginia, .
31. Feasibility Study of Hierarchical Multithreading, IPDPS Conference, Florida, .
Grants ⋄ External Funding:
· Equipment: Xilinx: , several FPGA boards and software tools to support our
research and teaching in heterogeneous computing.
· CRA-CREU /, Computing Research Association, title Dealing With Mem-
ory in the Parallel Computing Era”, ($7,500).
· CRA-CREU2013/, Computing Research Association, title General Purpose Graph-
ics Processor Units (GPGPUs) Bottleneck Analysis”, ($4,500).
· NSF-SGER /: “SGER: Exploring the Potential for Software-Informed Hard-
ware Re config ur ability in the Memory Hierarchy of Embedded Systems” ($ 40,000).
· NSF-CBET -, “MRI: Acquisition of an advanced micro-Computed Tomogra-
phy imaging facility”, ($ 339,450) [Co-PI].
· CRA-CREU /, Computing Research Association, title Toward Better Mem-
ory Hierarchy for Chip-Multiprocessor”, ($9,500).
· CRA-CREU /, Computing Research Association, title Effect of Bus Traffic
on Cache Hierarchy Performance”, ($3,500).
Mohamed Zahran
⋄ Internal Funding:
· NYU - University Research Challenge Fund,(/), Generalized Profiling: Ex-
tracting Wisdom from Profiling Data, ($15,000).
· PSC-CUNY grant 40 (/), The Professional Staff Congress-City University
of New York award for research on Off-Chip Bandwidth Management for Multicore
Processors,($2,700).
· PSC-CUNY grant 38 (/), The Professional Staff Congress-City University of
New York award for research on Global Replacement Policy,($3,950).
· PSC-CUNY grant 36 (/), The Professional Staff Congress-City University of
New York award for research on Improving Cache Memory Performance in Current
and New Microarchitecture Environments($2,320).
Professional
Activities
⋄ General Chair:
· The IEEE/ACM 49th International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA
), co-Chair with Valentina Salapura
⋄ Review Panel:
· National Science Foundation (NSF)
· Department of Energy (Do E)
⋄ Program committee member:
· The 56th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO )
· The50th IEEE ACM International Syposiumon Computer Architecture ISCA 2023
· International Workshopon Performance Analysisof Machine Learning Systems(FAST-
PATH )
· The 40th IEEE International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD )
· The 39th IEEE International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD )
· The 38th IEEE International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD )
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The 20th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Internet Com-
puting (CCGRID )
· The International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage,
and Analysis (SC )
· The 33rd IEEE International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS
)
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The23rd IEEE Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture HPC A 2017
· The 30th IEEE International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS
)
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF )
· The 29th IEEE International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS
)
· The 11th IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing (NPC
)
Mohamed Zahran
· The11th IEEE IF IP International Conference on Embedded and Ubiquitous Comput-
ing (EUC-13)
· Student Research Symposium held in High-Performance Computing Conference(SRS-
Hi PC )
· The10th IEEE IF IP International Conference on Embedded and Ubiquitous Comput-
ing (EUC )
· The 25th International Conference on Super computing (ICS-)
· The24th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium(IPDPS-
)
· The International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO-)
· The Fourth international Workshopon Automatic Performance Tuning(i WAPT2009)
· The 11th IEEE International Conference on High Performance Computing and Com-
muni cations (HPCC-09)
· The 2nd International Conference on Computer Science and its Applications (CSA
)
· IEEE International Conference on Microelectronics (ICM) , , and
· The International Computer Design Conference (CDES-)
⋄ Editorial:
· Steering Committee member IEEE Transaction on Multi-Scale Computing(term2018-
).
· Co-guest editor for a special issue of ACM Operating System Review about The inter-
action among Compilers, Operating Systems, and Multicore; April .
⋄ Organizing Committee Member:
· Publicity chair for the ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers
(CF )
· Publication Chair for the ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers 2011
and
· Workshops and tutorials co-chair for the 23rd International Conference on Supercom-
puting (ICS )
· Publicity chair for the Eighteenth International Conference on Parallel Architectures
and Compilation Techniques (PACT )
· Co-organizer of 2nd Re configurable and Adaptive Architecture Workshop (RAAW),
held in conjunction of The 40th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Mi-
cro architecture Dec .
· Co-organizer of 1st Re configurable and Adaptive Architecture Workshop (RAAW),
held in conjunction of The 39th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Mi-
cro architecture Dec .
⋄ Reviewing activities:
· Elsevier Microprocessors and Micro system journal
· The International Journal of Parallel Programming (IJPP)
· International Journal of Parallel, Emergent, and Distributed Systems
· Reviewer for Air Force Office of Scientific Research
· IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems
· ACM Transactions on Architecture and Code Optimization (TACO)
· IEEE Computer Architecture Letters (CAL)
Mohamed Zahran
· Journal Of Circuits, Systems, and Computers
· Journal of Computers and Their Applications
· International journal of embedded systems (IJES)
· International Conference on Super computing (ICS)
· International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA)
· International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA)
· International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS)
· International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS)
· International Conference on High Performance Computing (Hi PC)
· IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysisof Systemsand Software(IS-
PASS)
· International Computer Engineering Conference (ICENCO).
Societies ⋄ Full Member of Sigma Xi Honor society since
and
⋄ Senior member of IEEE (including Computer Society).
Affiliations
⋄ Member of the following IEEE Computer society technical committees :
· Computer Architecture (TCCA)
· Microprocessors and Micro Computers (TCMCMP)
· Microprogramming and Microarchitecture (TCMARCH)
⋄ Senior Member of ACM.
⋄ Member of the following ACM Special Interest Groups (SIG) :
· Computer Architecture (SIGARCH)
· Microprogramming (SIGMICRO)
· Operating Systems (SIGOPS)
· Computer Science Education (SIGCSE)
· Design Automation (SIGDA)
· Programming Languages (SIGPLAN)
⋄ Member of Egyptians Syndicate Professional Engineers society, since .
Teaching ⋄ Multicore Processors: Architecture and Programming
Experience In Computer Science Department of New York University
A graduate course that studies multicore processors, including homogeneous and heteroge-
neous, from hardware and software perspective.
⋄ Graphics Processing Units (GPUs): Architecture and Programming
In Computer Science Department of New York University
A graduate course that studies GPUs from hardware and software perspective.
⋄ Parallel Computing
In Computer Science Department of New York University
An undergraduate course that introduces students to both the hardware and software aspects
of parallel computing. Students are introduced to both shared-memory and distributed
memory architectures. They learn to program in MPI (for distributed-memory systems),
Open MP (for shared-memory systems), and CUDA (for GPUs).
Mohamed Zahran
⋄ Computer Systems Organization
In Computer Science Department of New York University
An undergraduate course that discusses what happens under the hood in a computer sys-
tems. It includes linkers, loaders, memory allocation, virtual memory, memory hierarchy,
as well as C programming language and x86 assembly.
⋄ Virtual Machines: Concepts and Applications
In Computer Science Department of New York University
A graduate course that studies the design and implementation of virtual machines, virtual
machine monitors, as well other recent trends in virtualization. It discusses virtual ma-
chines across the disciplines that use them: operating systems, programming languages,
and computer architecture.
⋄ Operating Systems
In Computer Science Department of New York University
A course that discusses the main concepts of operating systems design.
I taught both the graduate and undergraduate editions.
⋄ Compilers Construction:
In Computer Science Department of New York University
A graduate course in compilers design, that involves building a full compiler.
⋄ PAC II (Preparatory Accelerated Course):
In Computer Science Department of New York University
A graduate course to prepare non-CS students for graduate studies. It explores the whole
computing stack from algorithms to transistors.
⋄ Capstone Project:
In Electrical Engineering Department at City College of City University of New York
Supervising several senior design projects including: interfacing, softwaretooltohelpcom-
puter architecture researchers, and microprocessor design
⋄ Digital Computer Systems (Spring , Fall , Spring , fall , Spring ,
Fall , Spring , Fall , Spring , Fall , Spring ) In Electrical Engi-
neering Department at City College of City University of New York
This is a senior-level course about computer architecture.
⋄ Computer Engineering Laboratory: (Fall )
In Electrical Engineering Department at City College of City University of New York
This senior-level lab consists of several hands-on experiments in interfacing and FPGA.
I have also been faculty co-ordinator for that course (Spring , Fall , Spring ,
and fall )
⋄ Co-Teaching Graduate Course in Computer Architecture: (Spring 04)
Advanced graduate course in computer architecture and microprocessor design
In ECE department at The George Washington University
Duties include helping in preparing the syllabus, exams, projects, and giving lectures.
⋄ Teaching assistant: (Fall 99 - Spring 01)
In ECE department, University of Maryland at College Park. Assisted in teaching: Digital
Logic Design, Computer Organization.
Duties: holding weekly recitation classes, office hours as well as grading
homework assignments and exams.
⋄ Assistant Lecturer (Sep 97 - May 99)
Cairo University, Egypt.
Teaching: C programming language, Digital Logic Design,
Computer Architecture, Software Engineering and Operating Systems.
⋄ Lecturer (Spring 98)
Center of Adult and Continuing Education (CACE),
American University in Cairo (AUC).
Mohamed Zahran
Duties: Teaching computer architecture and assembly language programming course.
Advising ⋄ Ph. D. Adviser of:
· Bushra Ahsan, Dissertation Title: Off-Bandwidth for Multicore Processors: The Next
Big Wall, First employment: postdoc at University of Cyprus in /; Now at
Intel Hudson, MA.
⋄ Ph. D committee member of the following students:
· Ahmed Elkammar, City University of New York, August
· Zahidur Rahman, City University of New York, June
· Zhaoming Li, City University of New York, May
· Qiang Song, City University of New York, May
· Hassan Bajwa, City University of New York, Apr
· Flavio De Angelis, City University of New York,
· Kafi Hassan, City University of New York, .
· Osama Hussein, City University of New York, .
· Hooshang Sharif, City University of New York, .
⋄ M. Sc. committee member of the following Students:
· Hassan Bajwa, City College of City University of New York, Feb
· Jonathan Cardenas, City College of City University of New York, Dec
· Francois Cantonnet, ECE Dept, The George Washington University, Spring 04.
⋄ Supervisor of M. Sc. students for their M. Sc. thesis:
· Kumar Prasun, Configurable GPUs, (Expected May )
· Chris Quackenbush, A New Method for Using Profiling Data to Improve Efficiency
Across Multiple Applications, Computer Science Department, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences, NYU (Graduated Spring ).
· Beihong Chen, Cache Geometry and Architecture Acceleration for Machine Learning
Approaches, ECE Department, Tandon School of Engineering, NYU, (graduated sum-
mer ).
· Artem Durytskyy, ECE Department Polytechnic Institute of NYU Graduated Spring
)
· Lakshmi Cuddalore Ariv uda in ambi City Collegeof City University of New York,(Fall
)
· Preethi Gopinath, City College of City University of New York, (Fall )
· Sravan Paruchuri, City College of City University of New York, (Spring )
· Gurpreet Kaur, City College of City University of New York, (Spring )
· Bhave sh kumar Patel, City College of City University of New York, (Spring )
· Khurram Malik, City College of City University of New York, (Spring )
· Sandy Sakani, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
· Prasanna Uday Patil, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
· mattupalli susheela, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
· Varun Kumar Yadav Nalla, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
· Qasim Ali Mir, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
· Babji Reddy, City College of City University of New York, (fall )
Mohamed Zahran
· Mehul shah, City College of City University of New York, (summer )
· Pramod Yadav, City College of City University of New York, (spring )
⋄ Supervisor of graduate research (independent study) of:
· Anthony Christopher Lanzisera (NYU, Fall )
· Jeewon Ha (NYU, Fall )
· Siddesh Ramesh (NYU, Fall )
· Chia-hao Wu (NYU, Summer )
· Dhara Mungra (NYU, Spring )
· Tulsi Jain (NYU, Summer )
· Anshu Tomar (NYU, Spring )
· Aviral Khatta (NYU, Fall )
· Arnav Kansal (NYU, Fall )
· Ramani Kothadia (NYU, Fall )
· Yew Wong (NYU, Spring )
⋄ Supervisor of undergraduate research of:
· Xin Xiang (NYU, Fall )
· Nate Smith (NYU, Fall )
· Andy Huang (NYU, Fall )
· Isabella Tochterman (NYU, summer )
· Neal K Moorthy (NYU, Fall )
· Shiyang Wang (NYU, Spring )
· Reese Hyde (NYU, Summer )
· Sanjna Verma (NYU, Summer and Fall )
· Katelyn S Mulgrew (NYU, Summer and Fall )
· Daniel Cohen (NYU, Spring, Summer, and Fall )
· Louisa Lu (NYU, Summer and Fall , and Spring )
· Abhi Kumar (CUNY, Spring )
· Lina Cordero (CUNY, Fall )
· Heba Gab re CUNY Fall )
· Stephany Soria (CUNY, Fall )
· Jumie Yu vent i CUNY Fall )
· Jerry Backer (CUNY, Spring , Fall )
· Elbert Tsang (CUNY, Fall )
· Rajai Gooden (CUNY, Spring 06)
· Mamadou Lame (CUNY, Fall 05)
· Juan P. Monzon (CUNY, Spring 05-Fall 05)
· Ruhul Amin (CUNY, Spring 05)
· Mahfuzur Rahman (CUNY, Spring 05)
Research ⋄ AI Support for Architecture(-present)
Summary Can we make use of AItechniquestomakethehardwaremoreefficient. More specifically can
the execution of program A on a hardware make that hardware more efficient in executing
a different program B?
Mohamed Zahran
⋄ Graphics Processing Units (GPUs)(-present)
In this research project we study the opportunities for using GPUsinmanynon-scientificap-
plications. We also strive to overcome many challenges ranging from bandwidth bottleneck
and power-dissipation, to exposing different types of parallelism.
⋄ Memory Design and Management for Heterogeneous Computing (-present)
There are many challenges facing exascale computing. One of them is the heterogeneity
involved in computing nodes, memory technology, interconnect, etc. Memory system is one
ofthecrucialpartsofthewholesystem. What technology shall we use for memory modules
And why? How to manage them? What is the role of the compiler, operating system, and
the architecture?
⋄ Cache Hierarchy Extremely Scalable and Smart (-)
In this project, we design the cache hierarchy for many-core chips (i. e. more than 100 on-
chip cores). The desired hierarchy must allow cores to exchange information in a fast way,
even during very short cycle time, while decreasing off-chip bandwidth requirement. This
requires rethinking of many aspects of cache design such as the interaction among caches
and the bandwidth wall, the need for a global replacement and placement policy, and the
hierarchical decision making in cache hierarchy.
⋄ Dynamic Trusted Platform Modules(-)
Trusted Platform Module(TPM)isamoduleplacedon-boardtoprovideload-timeauthen-
tication of general purpose computing systems. This project has three goals. The first is to
extend TPM to provide trusted execution of programs, and not be limited to load-time or
boot-time. The second is to solve the s cal ability issues of TPMs. The third goal is to embed
TPMs into multicore and manycore chips for tighter interaction with the different cores.
⋄ Chip Multithreading(-)
As the number of transistors has already exceeded billion transistors per chip, the inclusion
of several processing elements per chip is now feasible. Making the best use of this chip-
multiprocessingcapabilityisachallengingproblem. To achieve that goal we study problems
such as: dynamic balancing between high throughput and high single-thread performance,
fast and dynamic pattern detection of different application behaviors, and the dynamic
reconfiguration of several processing elements on-chip.
⋄ Re configurable and Parallel Architecture:(-)
In this project, we study the integration of both general-purpose processors as well as
re configurable engines in order to allow the machine to dynamically reconfigure itself based
on run-time information to achieve the performance of an ASIC with the flexibility of a
general purpose machine. Moreover, the project involves the design of language extension
to the C-programming language for shared memory architectures. The language is called
Unified Parallel C (UPC).
⋄ Hierarchical Multithreading (-)
This is a new execution model I proposed in my Ph. D thesis that makes use of speculative
multithreadinginanovelway. It is used to parallel ize a sequential program using a combined
hardware and software approaches.