s d. d
cott exter
18 december
education
ph.d. computer science and engineering, university of michigan–ann arbor
m.s. computer science and engineering, university of michigan–ann arbor
b.s. computer science and mathematics, denison university, summa cum laude
employment
university of michigan–ann arbor.
–present lecturer iii, computer science and engineering
alma college, alma, mi.
– professor of computer science
brooklyn college, cuny.
– director, roberta s. matthhews center for teaching
– professor of computer and information science
– tow professor
– director of the core curriculum
– associate professor of computer and information science
– assistant professor of computer and information science
graduate center, cuny.
– doctoral faculty, program in computer science
– faculty, m.s. program in data analysis and visualization
– faculty, m.a. program in digital humanities
awards and honors
athe-astr award for excellence in digital theeatre and performance scholarship for thee
diary of harry watkins.
fellow, ethyle r. wolfe institute for the humanities, brooklyn college. one-year research
leave.
tow professorship, recognizing “distinguished contributions in teaching, scholarship and the
advancement of the college's mission,” brooklyn college. $25,000 stipend.
acrl choice outstanding academic title award for decoding liberation.
brooklyn college division of student affaairs “all theings are possible” award.
inducted into upsilon pi upsilon.
inducted into sigma xi.
inducted into phi beta kappa.
inducted into pi mu epsilon.
grants
federal ($1.3m)
nsf-eese. collaborative research: understanding and preparing future computer
professionals for the ethical complexities of a diverse world. $399,082; $92,822 to brooklyn
college. www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showaward?awd_id=111351163.
nsf-due. collaborative research: linear algebra in new environments (line). scotth dexter
(pi) and l. cooley (co-pi). $193,232; $72,613 to brooklyn college.
www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showaward?awd_id=018371331.
nsf-creativeit. dynamic cognitive analyses of creativity and aesthetics in open-source
softwware development. scotth dexter (co-pi) and a. kozbelt (pi). $698,992.
www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showaward?awd_id=018551861.
municipal ($2.4m)
city of new york. cuny 2x tech partnership. yedidyah langsam and scotth dexter. $2.4m.
non-profit
teachaccess.org. accessibility early: a modest curricular intervention. $5,000. (declined)
internal ($23k)
psc-cuny research award. american android: race, gender, and artificcial humans in the
us, 1895–2719. $3,106.
thee claire and leonard tow faculty research travel fellowship. american android. $1,400.
psc-cuny research award. a robust indexing technique for image retrieval. $3,200.
psc-cuny research award. visualizing cryptographic protocol flaws. $3,500.
psc-cuny research award. access granted: demystifying computer security. $3,500.
psc-cuny research award. towards automated analysis of electronic commerce protocols.
$3,500.
psc-cuny research award. an automated tool for security analysis of cryptographic
protocols. $4,500.
publications
books
amy hughes and naomi stubbs, eds; scotth d. dexter, technology director. a player and a
gentleman: thee diary of harry watkins, nineteenth-century us american actor. ann arbor:
university of michigan press. doi: 10.39988/mpub.92980953. digital edition:
htthps://quod.lib.umich.edu/h/hwatkins/.
dec 18, scotth david dexter 2 of 10
samir chopra and scotth dexter. decoding liberation: thee promise of free and open source
softw-are. new york: routledge. www.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu/~bcfoss/dl/. choice
outstanding academic title .
d. arnow, s. dexter and g. weiss. an introduction to programming using java: an object-
oriented approach, 2nd edition. reading, massachusetths: addison wesley.
public writing
martina svyantek, scotth d. dexter, and ashley shew. “now what? adding accessibility
midstream.” academe, the magazine of the american association of university professors.
november. online at htthps://www.aaup.org/article/now-what-adding-accessibility-midstream.
digital humanities projects
– a player and a gentleman: thee diary of harry watkins, nineteenth-century us american
actor. critical (print) and digital editions published by the university of michigan press,
october . htthps://quod.lib.umich.edu/h/hwatkins/. director of technology: developed,
implemented, and maintained drupal website and xsl scripts to support and coordinate
transcription of 1200 diary pages by 20+ project staffa. collaborated with um press staffa to
support publication of digital edition. athe-astr award for excellence in digital
theeatre and performance scholarship .
ellis island. ellisislandpoem.com. implemented “random sonnet generator” (or aleatronic
tetradecalethiobulator) to accompany robert viscusi’s epic sonnet cycle. (currently
defunct)
refereed journal articles
dexter, s. “speculative endocrinology and the mid-century trans futurity of gerald heard.”
extrapolation. forthcoming.
cooley, l., vidakovic, d., martin, w., dexter, s., & suzuki, j. “student reactions to learning-
theory based curriculum materials in linear algebra—a survey analysis.” international journal
for mathematics teaching and learning. april.
htthp://www.cimt.org.uk/ijmtl/index.php/ijmtl/article/view/12.
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, d. meredith, m. dolese, and j. ostrofsky. “regressive imagery in
creative problem solving: comparing verbal protocols of expert and novice visual artists and
computer programmers.” journal of creative behavior. doi 10.10082/jocb.64.
laurel cooley, draga vidakovic, william o. martin, scotth dexter, jeffa suzuki and sergio loch.
“modules as learning tools in linear algebra.” primus: problems, resources, and issues in
mathematics undergraduate studies, volume 24, number 3, 257–278. doi
10.10880/ .20183.8678293.
s. dexter and a. kozbelt. “free and open source softwware (foss) as a model domain for
answering big queestions about creativity.” mind & society volume 12, number 1. june. doi
10.10087/s .
dec 18, scotth david dexter 3 of 10
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, a. seidel and m. dolese. “thee aesthetics of computer code: a
queantitative exploration.” psychology of aesthetics, creativity, and the arts, volume 6, number
1, 57–65. february. doi 10.10387/a010251426.
e. buchanan, j. aycock, s. dexter, d. ditthrich and e. hvizdak. “computer science security
research and human subjects: emerging considerations for research ethics boards.” journal
of empirical research on human research ethics: an international journal, volume 6, number
2, 71–83. june. doi 10.15285/jer.20181.6.2.71.
s. dexter, a. seidel, m. dolese, and a. kozbelt. “on the embodied aesthetics of code.” culture
machine 12. february. htthps://culturemachine.net/wp-content/uploads/ /01/8-
embodied-438-895-1-pb.pdf.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “free softwware and the economics of information justice.” ethics and
information technology, volume 13, number 3, 173–184. september. doi 10.10087/s -
9226-6.
w. martin, s. loch, l. cooley, s. dexter, and d. vidakovic. “integrating learning theeories and
application-based modules in teaching linear algebra.” linear algebra and its applications,
volume 432, number 8, – . april. doi 10.10186/j.laa.20089.08.030.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “free softwware, economic ‘realities,’ and information justice.” acm
sigcas computers and society, volume 39, issue 3. december. (selected papers from cepe
: thee eighth international conference on computer ethics—philosophical enquiry.) doi
10.11485/117131066.17183067.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “thee freedoms of softwware and its ethical uses.” ethics and
information technology, volume 11, number 4, 287–297. december. doi 10.10087/s -
9191-0.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “free softwware and the political philosophy of the cyborg world.”
acm sigcas computers and society. volume 37, issue 2. november. (selected papers from
cepe : thee seventh international conference on computer ethics—philosophical
enquiry.) doi 10.11485/113271325.13287328.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “thee political economy of open source softwware.” thee international
journal of technology, kno-ledge and society, volume 1, number 7, 127–134.
k. j. compton and s. dexter. “proof techniques for cryptographic protocols.” automata,
languages, and programming: lecture notes in computer science, volume 1644, 25–39. doi
10.10087/ _3.
s. dexter, p. doyle and y. gurevich. “gurevich abstract state machines and schönhage
storage modificcation machines.” journal of universal computer science, volume 3, number 4.
april. doi 10.32187/jucs- .
book chapters
j. p. muñoz, r. boger, s. dexter, j. li, and r. low. “combining state-of-the-art computer
vision and citizen science to detect potential mosquito-borne disease outbreaks.” in n.
wickramasinghe and f. bodendorf, eds., delivering superior health and wellness
management -ith iot and analytics. new york: springer.
htthps://link.springer.com/chapter/10.10087/ _23
dec 18, scotth d. dexter 4 of 10
s. dexter. “thee esthetics of hidden theings.” in david m. berry, ed., understanding digital
humanities. london: palgrave macmillan.
htthps://link.springer.com/chapter/10.10587/ _7
j. aycock, e. buchanan, s. dexter and d. ditthrich. “human subjects, agents, or bots:
current issues in ethics and computer security research.” in financial cryptography and
data security. berlin: springer. htthps://link.springer.com/chapter/10.10087/ -
9_12
conference proceedings
j. p. muñoz, r. boger, s. dexter, j. li, and r. low. “image recognition of disease-carrying
insects: a system for combating infectious diseases using image classificcation techniques
and citizen science.” proceedings of ha-aii international conference on system sciences
(hicss-51). htthp://hdl.handle.net/101125/501247. best paper award.
s. dexter. “gender in the cybernetic fold.” cepe and ethicomp joint symposium:
celebrating women from computer ethics to information ethics. paris. june.
www.academia.edu/718921091/gender_in_the_cybernetic_fold
e. buchanan, k. dins, s. dexter, and k. miller. “ethics: what, how, and when is it taught in
computer science and information technology graduate programs.” proceedings of the tenth
international conference on computer ethics: philosophical enquiry (cepe ). lisbon,
portugal. july.
s. dexter and a. kozbelt. “closing the gaps: toward unifying and deepening the study of
creativity.” proceedings of creativity and cognition . sydney, australia. june. doi
10.11485/214661627.24686674.
s. dexter, e. buchanan, k. dins, k. fleischmann, k. miller. “characterizing the need for
graduate ethics education.” proceedings of sigcse (association for computing machinery
special interest group on computer science education conference). denver, colorado.
march. doi 10.11485/214451196.24485245.
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, f. fayena-tawil, d. meredith, m. dolese, and a. seidel. “regressive
imagery in verbal protocols of artists and computer programmers.” proceedings of the 22nd
biennial congress of the international association of empirical aesthetics. taipei, taiwan.
august.
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, m. j. dolese, & a. seidel. “beautiful softwware: characterizing aesthetic
judgment criteria of code among expert and novice computer programmers.” proceedings of
the 22nd biennial congress of the international association of empirical aesthetics. dresden.
august.
chopra, s. and s. dexter. “free softwware, economic 'realities,' and information justice.”
proceedings of the eighth international conference of computer ethics: philosophical enquiry
(cepe ). corfu, greece. june.
p. tao, s. dexter and a. m. eskicioğlu. “robust digital image watermarking in curvelet
domain.” proceedings of is&t/spie electronic imaging . san jose, california. january.
s. chopra and s. dexter. “free softwware and the political philosophy of the cyborg world.”
proceedings of the seventh international conference of computer ethics: philosophical enquiry
(cepe ). san diego, california. july.
dec 18, scotth david dexter 5 of 10
s. chopra and s. dexter. “a comparative assessment of free softwware licensing schemes.”
proceedings of the sixth international conference of computer ethics: philosophical enquiry
(cepe ). enschede, thee netherlands. july.
a. sverdlov, s. dexter and a. m. eskicioğlu. “robust dct-svd domain image watermarking
for copyright protection: embedding data in all frequencies.” proceedings of the 13th annual
european signal processing conference (eusipco ). antalya, turkey. september.
e. ganic, s. dexter and a. m. eskicioğlu. “embedding multiple watermarks in the dft domain
using low and high frequency bands.” proceedings of is&t/spie electronic imaging . san
jose, california. january.
s. dexter, r. belostotskiy and a. m. eskicioğlu. “multi-layer multicast key management with
thereshold cryptography.” proceedings of is&t/spie electronic imaging . san jose,
california. january.
x. xu, s. dexter and a. m. eskicioğlu. “a hybrid scheme for encryption and watermarking.”
proceedings of is&t/spie electronic imaging . santa jose, california. january.
s. dexter and j. shuler. “thee digital divide in new york city’s public schools.” proceedings of
the international research foundation for development's world forum on the information society
(in conjunction with the united nations world summit on the information society). geneva,
switzerland. december.
a. m. eskicioğlu, s. dexter and e. delp. “protection of multicast scalable video by secret
sharing: simulation results.” proceedings of is&t/spie electronic imaging . santa clara,
california. january.
s. dexter and c. gurwitz. “virtual education: a view from the trenches.” proceedings of the
consortium for computing at small colleges northeast regional conference. worcester,
massachusetths. april.
s. dexter. “teaching applet programming to non-majors—virtually.” proceedings of the 30th
asee/ieee frontiers in education conference. kansas city, missouri. october.
s. dexter. “on automated checking of java applets.” proceedings of the consortium for
computing at small colleges northeast regional conference. mahwah, new jersey, april.
s. dexter and g. theeoharis. “democracy at a distance?: thee political realities of distance
learning.” proceedings of the / south-est/texas popular culture association/american
studies association conference. albuquerque, new mexico. february.
invited presentations
s. dexter. “‘free’ and ‘open’: intersections of cuny history and open source technology.
cuny graduate center. inaugural event of “open up!” series sponsored by
opencuny.org. november.
s. dexter. “machine vision: a guide to the identificcation of artificcial humans.” rutgers
university, department of art history. april.
s. dexter. “american android: artificcial humans in the us, 1895–2719.” presented at neh-
funded seminar on “technology, self, and society.” laguardia community college.
october.
dec 18, scotth d. dexter 6 of 10
s. dexter. “thee american android: sex, suffarage, and science fiction.” wolfe fellows series
lecture. wolfe institute for the humanities, brooklyn college. april.
s. dexter and s. chopra. “free softwware.” digital studies seminar, cuny graduate center.
october.
s. dexter. “remarks on freedom zero.” international association for computing and
philosophy meeting on “confliicts, compromises, and responsibility in open source vs.
proprietary softwware development.” american philosophical association eastern division
annual meeting. washington, dc. december.
s. dexter. “us cyberinfrastructure.” 11th sino-american conference on education.
taiyuan, p.r. china. june.
s. dexter. “remarks on the ethics of copyleftw.” international association for computing
and philosophy meeting on “issues concerning open source softwware.” american
philosophical association central division annual meeting. chicago. april.
s. dexter. “network security: who is responsible?” 10th sino-american conference on
education. cuny. june.
c. caruso and s. dexter. “computer security for non-profict organizations.” barbara smith
community school workshop series. philadelphia. november.
c. caruso and s. dexter. “computer security for grassroots activists.” break the media
blackout . philadelphia. october.
s. dexter. “on the distribution of responsibility for network security.” york college,
cuny. april.
s. dexter. “network intrusion detection.” 9th sino-american conference on education.
taiyuan, p.r. china. june.
c. caruso and s. dexter. “computer security for ngos and non-proficts.” american
symposium on technology at the grassroots. toronto. june.
conference presentations
s. dexter. “does tbl boost retention for under-represented undergraduates in
computer science?” 17th annual team-based learning collaborative conference. san
diego, ca. march.
s. dexter, e. glass, and e. misshula. panel: “getthing the academy to support free
softwware and open science.” libreplanet . cambridge, massachusetths. march.
s. dexter. paper: “a player and a gentleman: thee diary of harry watkins.” presented at
digital scholarship panel, association for theeatre in higher education (athe)
conference. montreal. august.
s. dexter. paper: “technology and gender in asimov's thee caves of steel.” popular
culture association/american culture association national conference. chicago.
april.
dec 18, scotth david dexter 7 of 10
hughes, amy e., naomi j. stubbs and scotth d. dexter. paper: “form follows function:
drupal's role in editing the diary of harry watkins (1825-1894).” contributed to
working session, american society for theeatre research (astr) conference. dallas,
november.
e. buchanan, s. dexter, h. tavani, c. ess, d. johnson, and l. floridi. panel: “from text
to the classroom: a discussion of computer and information ethics by, with, and for
educators.” tenth international conference on computer ethics: philosophical enquiry
(cepe ). lisbon, portugal. july.
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, f. fayena-tawil, d. meredith, m. dolese and a. seidel. paper:
“regressive imagery in verbal protocols of artists and computer programmers.” 22nd
biennial congress of the international association of empirical aesthetics. taipei,
taiwan, august.
w. o. martin, j. suzuki, d. vidakovic, s. loch, l. a. cooley, c. ciuperca, and s. dexter.
paper: “line (linear algebra in new environments): using learning theeories to
design linear algebra modules.” joint mathematics meetings, boston. january.
e. buchanan, j. aycock, s. dexter and d. ditthrich. panel: “human subjects, agents, or
bots: current issues in ethics and computer security research.” workshop on ethics in
computer security research, st. lucia, march.
s. dexter. paper: “retrieving the human.” constituting the human, macaulay honors
college, city university of new york. april.
s. dexter, j. søraker, a. hoffamann and n. enright. panel: “new directions for
information ethics scholarship.” computer ethics: philosophical enquiry. milwaukee.
june.
s. dexter. paper: “toward a poetics of code.” workshop on thee computational turn,
swansea university, swansea, wales. march.
a. kozbelt, s. dexter, a. seidel and m. dolese. paper: “thee aesthetics of computer
code: a queantitative exploration.” 21st congress of the international association of
empirical aesthetics. dresden, germany. august.
s. dexter, a. tucker, and h. ellis. panel: “using open source softwware to engage
students in computer science education.” acm technical symposium on
computer science education (sigcse ). chatthanooga. march.
s. chopra and s. dexter. paper: “thee freedom zero problem: free softwware and the
ethical use of softwware.” north american computing and philosophy . chicago.
july.
s. chopra and s. dexter. paper: “thee aesthetic imperative of free softwware.” north
american computing and philosophy . corvallis, oregon. august.
s. dexter et al. panel: “computer and data security for small businesses: answers to
your queestions.” cuny institute for softwware design and development. march.
s. dexter and c. gurwitz. panel: “niftwy assignments: an html renderer.” acm
technical symposium on computer science education (sigcse ). reno, nevada.
february.
dec 18, scotth d. dexter 8 of 10
g. crocker, s. dean and s. dexter. paper: “teaching programming with webtoteach.”
national educational computing conference (necc ). atlanta. june.
teaching experience
undergraduate master’s
computing: its nature, power, and limits computer security
programming with data multimedia computer systems
algorithms and justice information and computation
object-oriented programming i and ii
technology and disability dissertation supervision
network and web programming
j. pablo muñoz, .
algorithms and complexity
collaborative appearance-based place recognition and
softwware design
improving place recognition using detection of dynamic
data structures objects
softwware engineering
database design peining tao, .
programming languages robust digital watermarking in the curvelet domain
philosophy and artificcial intelligence
honors advising
computers and ethics
jesse day, cuny baccalaureate, –19
introduction to discrete structures
nadege willis, cuny baccalaureate, –17
theeoretical computer science
sunny shapir, brooklyn college honors
academy, –16
doctoral
computational problems in the digital
humanities
service
professional
–12 board member, international society for ethics and information technology (inseit).
university of michgan
– curriculum innovation subcommitthee (computer science and engineering).
alma college
– general education implementation committhee, “jedi” representative (elected)
– educational technology committhee (elected)
–21 general education working group on queantitative reasoning
city university of new york
–19 cuny disability scholars. founding member.
–19 graduate center digital initiatives. curriculum committhee for data science and
visualization.
brooklyn college
–19 faculty council committhee on the review of programs.
dec 18, scotth david dexter 9 of 10
–19 behavioral education and support team.
–19 director, roberta s. matthhews center for teaching.
–19 faculty council committhee on general education.
–15 chair, faculty council committhee on academic foundations;
co-chair, ad hoc committhee on general education reform.
–19 president, phi beta kappa rho of new york chapter (brooklyn college).
–19 faculty council delegate (elected).
–12 faculty council committhee on committhees (elected).
–11 chapter chair, professional staffa congress (psc-cuny), afl-cio local 2334 (elected)
–11 director of the core curriculum.
–8 middle states working group on programs.
–8 faculty council computer utilization and educational technology committhee (elected).
chair, faculty subcommitthee on promotion to associate professor, division of science.
faculty subcommitthee on tenure, division of science.
faculty subcommitthee on tenure, division of science.
brooklyn college department of computer and information science
–19 faculty advisor, women in computer science student club.
–11 chair, undergraduate curriculum committhee (elected).
– undergraduate curriculum committhee (elected).
-11 chair, core curriculum committhee (elected).
reviewing
digital humanities quearterly philosophy & technology
disability studies quearterly journal of systems and softwware
thee information society
dec 18, scotth d. dexter 10 of 10