dr. stephen b. wicker
professor
school of electrical and computer engineering
cornell university
education
ph.d. electrical engineering
university of southern california
m.s.e.e. electrical engineering
purdue university
b.s.e.e. electrical engineering
university of virginia
employment history
cornell university, ithaca new york
school of electrical engineering
associate director for research
professor -
associate professor -
georgia institute of technology, atlanta, georgia
school of electrical and computer engineering
associate professor -
assistant professor -
hughes aircraft, el segundo, california, information sciences
department, system laboratories, space and communications
staff engineer -
bell laboratories, network architecture research group
columbus, ohio
experience summary
professor wicker teaches and conducts research in wireless information networks,
secure networks, packet-switched computer networks, and digital telephony. his
research has focused on the development and application of advanced technologies
to adaptive networks. current interests include privacy-aware design practices for
wireless networks and self-configuring sensor networks for disaster recovery,
infrastructure monitoring, and national security. other interests include secure
anonymous networking, the behavior of complex systems, phase transitions in np-
hard problems, and the evolution of the nation’s telecommunications networks.
professor wicker is the cornell principal investigator for the trust science and
technology center – a national science foundation center dedicated to the
development of technologies for securing the nation’s critical infrastructure.
in professor wicker testified before the congressional committee on science
and technology and was appointed to the air force scientific advisory board. he is
a fellow of the ieee.
technical duties at hughes aircraft included the following:
1. principal system engineer for advanced military satellite
communications, new business.
2. team leader and principal author of study examining the use of
60 and 94 ghz monolithic arrays in satellite cross-links.
3. team leader and principal author of study examining the use of
high electron mobility transistor (hemt) devices in frequency
synthesizers for frequency hopped communication systems.
4. responsible for analysis, design, and production of 800 mbps
demod-remod sqpsk receiver.
5. responsible for analysis and design of several receivers and
digital signal processors for various military satellite programs.
6. conducted analysis and simulation of milstar direct digital
frequency synthesizers.
technical duties at bell laboratories included the development of synchronous
protocols for a packet switch (no. 2 stp).
consulting
• mitre corporation., eatontown, nj.
o turbo error control for wireless applications.
• motorola inc. advanced mobile messaging division –
o wireless networking
• digital technics inc., baltimore, md.
o design of ss7/sonet/atm interface for telephone switch.
• integrated device technology, santa clara, ca.
o development of reed-solomon error control chip for high-speed mass
memory applications.
• lockheed sanders, avionics division, nashua, n.h.
o development of error control chips for magnetic recording in space
applications.
• mobile telecommunication technologies, jackson, ms.
o design and analysis of mobile networks for paging and data transfer,
bulk data transfer using frame relay.
• al-elm research and development corp., raleigh, n.c.
o design and development of advanced digital voice and fax
encryption techniques.
• intellivision, atlanta, ga.
o design and development of automated telephone switching equipment.
• unisys corporation, san jose, ca.
o design and development of error control algorithms for internodal
communication in multiprocessing computer systems.
• ii morrow inc., ups technical systems, salem, or.
o analysis, design, and development of error control systems for mobile
radio networks.
• charter leasing corporation, richmond, va.
2
o analysis and design of digital switching systems for commercial
telephony.
curriculum development
• developed and implemented a course for freshmen entitled “wiretaps to
facebook: security and privacy in information networks” for the college of
engineering, cornell university, ithaca, new york (fall ).
• developed and implemented a course for juniors entitled “networks and
systems” for the school of electrical engineering, cornell university,
ithaca, new york (spring ).
• developed and implemented a course for seniors entitled “artificial
intelligence and expert systems for telecommunications networks” for the
school of electrical engineering, cornell university, ithaca, new york (spring
).
• developed and implemented a course for freshmen entitled “introduction to
telecommunications” for the college of engineering, cornell university,
ithaca, new york (spring ).
• developed and implemented a graduate course in cryptography and data
security for the school of electrical engineering, cornell university, ithaca,
new york (fall ).
• academic coordinator, georgia tech - lorraine, metz, france, september
- march .
• developed and implemented two graduate courses in error control coding
and one graduate course in cryptography and data security for the school of
electrical engineering, georgia institute of technology, atlanta, georgia.
• developed and taught numerous short courses on digital communication
systems, wireless information networks, error control, and cryptology.
ph. d. students (graduated)
cornell university
• daniel lee (“reliable and energy-efficient wireless sensor networks for
mobile healthcare systems,” graduated summer )
• nathan karst (“combinatorial designs for key distribution and secure
re-keying in group communication systems,” graduated summer )
• sergio bermudez (“analysis of topological properties of random wireless
sensor networks,” graduated summer )
• mikhail lisovich (“mobility and privacy: exploring technical and social
issues in emerging pervasive sensor networks,” graduated spring )
3
• michael eoin buckley (“side information inference for turbo code based
systems,” graduated fall )
• coalton bennett (“secure data reporting for demand response
systems,” graduated fall )
• ania kacewicz (“coding theory for security and reliability in wireless
networks,” graduated fall )
• phillip kuryloski (“design strategies for human centered sensor
networks,” graduated spring )
• sameer pai, (“co-design of sensor networking technology and privacy
policy,” graduated spring )
• hui qu, (“co-designed localization and geographic routing algorithm for
sensor networks,” graduated spring )
• christina tavoularis, (“event detection and queueing in wireless sensor
networks,” graduated fall )
• hazer inaltekin, (“game theoretic mac protocol design and interference
analysis for wireless networks,” graduated spring )
• xin zhang, (“distributed source coding in sensor networks,” graduated
spring )
• martin roth, (“termite: a swarm intelligent routing algorithm for mobile
wireless ad hoc networks,” graduated winter )
• prince samar. (“optimizing protocols for mobility in ad hoc networks,”
graduated summer, )
• yasser mourtada. (“content-aware routing schemes,” graduated summer,
)
• allen mackenzie. (“game theoretic analysis of medium access control
protocols,” graduated spring, )
• ewald hueffmeier, jr. (applied mathematics - turbo decoding architectures
and algorithms for wireless data systems, graduated summer, )
• xie xi (ai and expert systems for random access protocols, graduated
summer, )
• bhaskar krishnamarchari ("complexity and phase transitions in wireless
networks," graduated spring, )
• sarah spence ("subfield subcodes of reed-solomon codes," graduated
spring, )
• eric sakk ("wavelets based on reed-muller coding," graduated spring,
)
• frederic fontaine ("iterative trellis decoding for block codes," graduated
summer, )
• saejoon kim (“belief propagation, parameter estimation, and issues in
turbo decoding,” graduated summer )
georgia tech
• andreas yankopolus. (“adaptive error control for wireless multimedia"),
graduated winter, )
• james kosmach (“soft decision decoding for wireless mobile systems,”
graduated fall. )
4
• amjad luna (“dsp implementation of advanced decoder architectures,”
graduated winter,
• jong-il park (“turbo equalization algorithms,” graduated winter, )
• thomas tapp (“advanced error control systems for mobile messaging
systems,” graduated summer, )
• mahdi zaidan (“tree structure trellis codes,” graduated spring, )
• xiao-an wang (“trellis-based decoders and neural network
implementations,” graduated winter, )
• ahmed el-rifai (“application of linear block codes to the mceliece
cryptosystem,” graduated fall, )
• miin-jong hao (“performance evaluation of practical fsk, cpfsk, and
ask detection schemes for coherent optical fiber communication
systems,” graduated summer, )
• slim souissi (“adaptive packet combining in cdma systems,”
graduated summer, )
• deidre williams (“key management in the mceliece cryptosystem,”
graduated summer, )
• lars rasmussen (“trellis coded adaptive rate hybrid-arq protocols
over awgn and slowly fading rician channels,” graduated summer
)
• mohssen alabbadi (“integration of error correction, encryption, and
signature using linear error-correcting block codes,” graduated summer
)
• michael bartz (“soft decision decoders based on artificial neural
networks,” graduated summer )
• michael rice (“adaptive error control over slowly varying channels,”
graduated spring )
• bruce harvey (“adaptive rate convolutional coding using the viterbi
decoder,” graduated spring )
ph.d. students (in progress)
• daniel lee (cellular information systems )
• nathan karst (design theory)
• dipayan ghosh (smart grid/demand response systems)
publications
theses
• wicker, s. b., “the geometry of error correcting codes,” ph.d. thesis,
university of southern california, los angeles, california, may .
• wicker, s. b., “a microprocessor based diagnostic system,” bs thesis,
university of virginia, charlottesville, virginia, may .
5
books
• wicker, s. b. and kim, s., fundamentals of codes, graphs, and iterative
decoding, boston: kluwer academic press, .
• heegard, c. and wicker, s. b., turbo coding, boston: kluwer academic
press, .
• wicker, s. b., error control systems for digital communication and
storage, englewood cliffs: prentice hall, .
• wicker, s. b. and bhargava, v. k. (editors), reed-solomon codes and
their applications, piscataway: ieee press, .
• chmora, a., and wicker, s. b. (editors), error control, cryptology, and
speech compression: workshop on information protection, moscow,
russia, lecture notes in computer science, volume 829, heidelberg:
springer verlag, .
parts of books
• z. haas, j. y. halpern, l. li, and s. b. wicker, “a decision-theoretic approach
to resource allocation in wireless multimedia networks,” resource allocation
in next generation wireless networks (w. li and y. pan, eds.), nova
science publishers, .
• p. samar and s.b. wicker, "on the behavior of communication links in a
multi-hop mobile environment," frontiers in distributed sensor networks,
s.s. iyengar and r.r. brooks (eds.), crc press, .
• b. krishnamachari and s. b. wicker, "base station location optimization in
cellular wireless networks using heuristic search algorithms," book chapter
in soft computing in communications, ed. l. wang, springer-verlag, .
• wicker, s. b., "cyclic codes" in wiley encyclopedia of telecommunications,
(ed: j. proakis), .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, stephen b. wicker, ramon bejar, and marc
pearlman, "critical density thresholds in distributed wireless networks,"
advances in coding and information theory, eds. h. bhargava, h.v. poor
and v. tarokh, kluwer publishers, .
• carla games, xi xie, stephen b. wicker, and bart selman, “heavy tails,
phae transitions, and the nature of cutoff,” in codes, graphs, and systems,
boston: kluwer, .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, xi xie, bart selman, and stephen b. wicker,
"analysis of random walk and random noise algorithms for satisfiability
6
testing," principles and practice of constraint programming - cp ,
lecture notes in computer science, vol. 1894, springer, september .
• bhaskar krishnamachari and stephen b. wicker, "global search techniques
for problems in mobile communications," in telecommunications
optimization: adaptive and heuristic approaches, eds. david corne et al.,
john wiley & sons publishers, october .
• costello, d., hagenauer, j., imai, h., and wicker, s. b., “applications of error
control coding,” information theory: 50 years of discovery (s. verdú and s.
mclaughlin, ed), ieee press, .
• wicker, s. b., “deep space applications,” handbook of coding theory, (vera
pless and william cary huffman, ed.), amsterdam: elsevier, .
• wicker, s. b. and bhargava, v. k., “introduction,” in reed-solomon codes
and their applications, (s. b. wicker and v. k. bhargava, ed.), ieee press,
.
• wicker, s. b. and bartz, m., “reed-solomon codes in hybrid automatic-
repeat-request protocols,” in reed-solomon codes and their
applications, (s. b. wicker and v. k. bhargava, ed.), ieee press, .
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “susceptibility of digital signature schemes
based on error-correcting codes to universal forgery,” in error control,
cryptology, and speech compression: workshop on information protection,
moscow, russia (a. chmora and s. b. wicker, ed.), lecture notes on
computer science, volume 829, heidelberg: springer verlag, .
• souissi, slim and wicker, s. b., "application of packet combining
techniques to a ds/cdma system using convolutional encoding and
sequential decoding", in communication theory and applications ii (b.
honary, m. darnell, and p. farrell, ed.) london: hw communications
publishing ltd, .
• wicker, s. b., “trellis coded hybrid-arq protocols,” in communication,
control, and signal processing, pp. 339 - 346, (erdal erikan, ed.),
amsterdam: elsevier publishing ( ).
refereed journal articles (published or to appear)
• n. karst, s. b. wicker. "on secure rekeying using cover-free families,"
ieee transactions on information theory, in revision.
• h. inaltekin, m. chiang, h. v. poor and s. b. wicker, ``selfish random access
over wireless channels with multipacket reception," ieee journal in selected
7
areas in communications, (special issue on game theory in wireless
communications), revision submitted, aug .
• s. b. wicker, “digital telephony and the question of privacy,”
communications of the acm, vol. 54, no. 7, july, , pp. 88 – 98.
• s, b, wicker and d. e. schrader, “privacy-aware design principles for
information networks,” proceedings of the ieee, february , pp. 330 -
350.
• mikhail lisovich, deirdre mulligan, and stephen b. wicker, “inferring
personal information from demand-response systems,” ieee security
and privacy magazine; january/february .
• anna kacewicz and stephen b. wicker, "redundancy minimizing techniques
for robust transmission in wireless networks," journal of communications
and networks, 11:564-573, .
• h. inaltekin, m. chiang, h. v. poor and s.b. wicker, ``on unbounded
path-loss models: effects of singularity on wireless network performance,"
ieee journal in selected areas in communications (special issue on
geometry and random graphs for the analysis of and design of wireless
networks), vol. 27, no. 7, pp. 1078-1092, sept .
• h. inaltekin and s.b. wicker, "a one-shot random access game for wireless
networks – behavior of nodes at nash equilibria" ieee/acm trans. on
networking, december .
• h. inaltekin and s. b. wicker, ``the analysis of nash equilibria of the one-
shot random access game for wireless networks and the behavior of
selfish nodes," ieee/acm trans. on networking, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 1094-
1107, oct .
• s. pai, m. meingast, t. roosta, s. bermudez, s. wicker, d. mulligan, and s.
s. sastry, "confidentiality in sensor networks: transactional information,"
ieee security and privacy magazine; july/august .
• h. qu and s. b. wicker, "a combined localization and geographic routing
algorithm for rapidly-deployed wireless sensor networks", international
journal of distributed sensor networks, volume 4, issue 1 january ,
pages 44 - 63.
• h. qu and s. b. wicker, "co-designed anchor-free localization and
location-based routing algorithm for rapidly-deployed wireless sensor
networks", information fusion, .
8
• m. meingast, s. pai, s. wicker, s. s. sastry, "privacy in camera networks, a
technical perspective," eecs department, university of california, berkeley,
technical report ucb/eecs- -94, july .
• x. zhang, j. chen, s. b. wicker, and t. berger, "successive coding in
multiuser information theory", ieee transactions on information theory,
volume 53, no. 6, june , pp. 2246 – 2254.
• p. samar and s. b. wicker, “link dynamics and protocol design in a
multi-hop mobile environment,” ieee transactions on mobile computing,
september .
• x. zhang, s. b. wicker, "on the optimal distribution of sensors in a
random field", acm transactions on sensor networks, march .
j. chen, x. zhang, t. berger and s. b. wicker "the sum-rate distortion
•
function and optimal rate allocation for the quadratic gaussian ceo
problem" ieee journal on selected areas in communications: special issue
on sensor networks, volume 22, no. 6, august .
bhaskar krishnamachari, rung-hung gau, stephen b. wicker, and zygmunt
•
j. haas, "optimal sequential paging in cellular networks," acm/baltzer
wireless networks, vol 10, no. 2, march .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, stephen wicker, ramon bejar and cesar
fernandez, "on the complexity of distributed self-configuration in wireless
networks," in kluwer journal on telecommunication systems, special issue
on wireless networks and mobile computing, eds. i. stojmenovic and s.
olariu, vol. 22, no. 1, january/april .
• b. krishnamachari, y. mourtada, and s. wicker, "the energy-robustness
tradeoff for real-time information routing in wireless sensor networks,"
submitted to the special issue of elsevier computer networks on wireless
sensor networks, october .
• andrea goldsmith and stephen b. wicker, "design challenges for energy-
constrained ad hoc wireless networks," ieee wireless communications
magazine, august, .
• allen b. mackenzie and stephen b. wicker, "game theory and the design of
self-configuring, adaptive wireless networks," ieee communications
magazine, november .
• buckley, m. e. and wicker, s. b., “the design and performance of a neural
network for predicting decoder error in turbo-coded arq protocols,” ieee
transactions on communications, volume 48, number 4, pp. 566 - 576, april
.
9
• park, j. i., wicker, s. b., and owen, h. l., “trellis-based soft output
adaptive equalization techniques for tdma cellular systems,” ieee
transactions on vehicular technology, pp. 83 – 94, january .
• wang, x.a., and wicker, s. b., "the bcjr trellis and the design and
implementation of trellis decoders for some bch codes," applicable
algebra in engineering, communication, and computing, volume 9, number
6, , pp. 521 - 546.
• buckley, m. e. and wicker, s. b., “a neural network for predicting decoder
error in turbo decoders,” ieee communications letters, volume 3, number
5, may , pp. 145 - 147.
• tapp, t., luna, a., wang, x.a., and wicker, s. b., “bch soft decision
decoders for mobile data applications,” ieee transactions on
communications, volume 47, number 3, pp. 333 – 337, march .
• luna, a., fontaine, f. and wicker, s. b., “iterative maximum likelihood trellis
decoding for block codes,” ieee transactions on communications, volume
47, number 3, pp. 338 – 342, march .
• costello, d., hagenauer, j., imai, h., and wicker, s. b., “applications of error
control coding,” ieee transactions on information theory, 50th anniversary
issue, volume 44, number 6, pp. , october .
• zaidan, m. y. and wicker, s. b., “trellis coded modulation with σ-tree
codes,” ieee transactions on information theory, volume 43, number 6, pp.
, november, .
• hao, m.-j. and wicker, s. b., “the effect of error control coding in
multichannel fsk coherent lightwave communication systems,” ieee
journal of lightwave technology, volume 14, number 12, pp. ,
december, .
• rasmussen, l. k., bartz, m. j., and wicker, s. b., “a comparison of trellis
coded and reed-solomon coded hybrid-arq protocols over slowly
fading rayleigh channels,” wireless personal communications, volume 2,
number 4, pp. 393-413, .
• wang, x-a, and wicker, s. b., “generalized soft decision decoding for
concatenated systems,” ieee transactions on information theory, volume
42, number 2, pp. 543-553, march, .
• wang, x-a, and wicker, s. b., “the analog neural net viterbi decoder,”
ieee transactions on communications, volume 44, number 2, february,
, pp. 165 - 171.
10
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “trellis coded, type-i hybrid-arq
protocols based on crc error-detecting codes,” ieee transactions on
communications, volume 43, number 10, october, , pp. .
• hao, m.-j. and wicker, s. b., “performance evaluation of fsk and cpfsk
optical communication systems: a stable and accurate method,” ieee
journal of lightwave technology, volume 13, number 8, august , pp
.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “a comparison of two code combining
techniques for equal gain, trellis coded diversity receivers,” ieee
transactions on vehicular technology, volume 44, number 2, may, ,
pp. 291 - 295.
• souissi, s. and wicker, s. b., “a diversity combining ds/cdma system with
convolutional encoding and viterbi decoding,” ieee transactions on
vehicular technology, volume 44, number 2, may, , pp. 304 - 312.
• wicker, s. b. and bartz, m., “type-ii hybrid-arq protocols using punctured
mds codes,” ieee transactions on communications, vol. 42, no. 4, pp.
1431-1440, april .
• rice, m. d. and wicker s. b., “a sequential testing scheme for adaptive
error control on slowly varying channels” ieee transactions on
communications, vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 1533-1543, april .
• harvey, b. a. and wicker, s. b., “packet combining systems based on the
viterbi decoder” ieee transactions on communications, vol. 42, no. 4, pp.
1544-1557, april .
• rice, m. d. and wicker, s. b., “adaptive error control for slowly varying
channels,” ieee transactions on communications, vol. 42, no. 3, pp. 917-
926, march .
• wicker, s. b. and bartz, m., “the design and implementation of type-i and
type-ii hybrid-arq protocols based on first-order reed-muller codes,”
ieee transactions on communications, vol. 42, no. 3, pp. 979-987, march
.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “trellis coded hybrid-arq protocols over
awgn and slowly fading rician channels,” ieee transactions on
information theory, volume 40, number 2, march , pp. 418-428.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “a comparison of two retransmission
request mechanisms for trellis coded modulation,” electronics letters,
volume 29, number 25, pp. , december 9, .
11
• rice, m. d. and wicker, s. b., "modified majority-logic decoding of cyclic
codes in hybrid-arq systems, ieee transactions on communications,
volume 40, number 9, pp. , september, .
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “cryptanalysis of the harn-wang modification
of the xinmei signature scheme,” electronics letters, volume 28, number 18,
pp. , august 27, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control coding for data transmission
over rayleigh fading channels with feedback,” ieee transactions on
vehicular technology, volume 41, number 2, pp. 124 - 133, may .
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “the security of xinmei’s digital signature
scheme” electronics letters, volume 28, number 9, pp. 890 - 891, april
.
• wicker, s. b., “adaptive rate error control through the use of diversity
combining and majority-logic decoding in a hybrid-arq protocol,” ieee
transactions on communications, volume 39, number 3, pp. 380 - 386,
march .
• harvey, b and wicker, s. b., “error-trapping viterbi decoding for type-i
hybrid-arq protocols,” canadian journal of electrical and computer
engineering, volume 16, number 1, pp. 5 - 12, january .
• wicker, s. b., “muting algorithms based on the use of side information
generated by error control systems,” ieee transactions on vehicular
technology, volume 39, no 2, pp. 171 - 176, may .
• wicker, s. b., “modified majority-logic decoders for use in convolutionally
encoded hybrid-arq systems,” ieee transactions on communications,
volume 38, no. 3, pp. 263 - 266, march .
• wicker, s. b., “high reliability data transfer over the land mobile radio
channel,” ieee transactions on vehicular technology, volume 39, no 1, pp.
48 - 55, february .
refereed conference papers
• stephen b. wicker and robert j. thomas, “a privacy-aware architecture for
demand response systems” in proc. of the 44 hawaiian confernece on
system science (hicss-44), kauai, hawaii, january 10, . nominee for
best paper award.
• anna kacewicz and stephen b. wicker, "application of reed-muller codes
for localization of malicious nodes, " in proc. ieee international conference
on communications (icc’10), cape town, south africa, may 23–27, .
12
• sergio bermudez and stephen b. wicker, “partial connectivity of multi-hop
two-dimensional finite hybrid wireless networks,” in proc. ieee international
conference on communications (icc’10), cape town, south africa, may 23–
27, .
• bennett c., wicker s. b., “decreased time delay and security enhancement
recommendations for ami smart meter networks.” pes innovative
smart grid technologies conference., gaithersburg, maryland, january 19th-
21st,
• anna kacewicz and stephen b. wicker, "secrecy and reliability using raptor
codes in the presence of a wiretapper in a multiple path wireless network",
proceedings of international conference on wireless communications and
signal processing, nanjing, china, nov 13, - nov 15, .
• bennett c., wicker s. b., cardell j., “a review of the communication
protocols for smart grid ami systems.” fifth annual carnegie mellon
conference on the electricity industry: smart grids ., pittsburgh,
pennsylvania,
• s. bermudez and s. b. wicker, “connectivity analysis under shadowing in
wireless networks with data correlation topology control,” in proc. ieee
international symposium on wireless pervasive computing (iswpc’09),
melbourne, australia, feb. 11–13, .
• s. bermudez and s. b. wicker, “connectivity of finite wireless networks with
random communication range nodes,” in proc. ieee international conference
on communications (icc’09), dresden, germany, jun. 14–18, .
• anna kacewicz, stephen b. wicker, "optimizing redundancy using mds
codes and dynamic symbol allocation in mobile ad hoc
networks," proceedings of the conference on information science and
systems (ciss), 1093-1098, .
• s. a. bermudez and s. b. wicker, “on the connectivity of finite wireless
networks with multiple base stations,” in proc. 17th international conference
on computer communications and networks (icccn’08), saint thomas,
u.s. virgin islands, aug. 3–7, .
• h. inaltekin, m. chiang, h. v. poor and s. b. wicker, “on the asymptotic
behavior of selfish transmitters sharing a common wireless communication
channel,” proceedings of the ieee international symposium on
information theory, toronto, canada, july .
• s. bermudez and s. b. wicker, "taking advantage of data correlation to
control the topology of wireless sensor networks," 15th international
conference on telecommunications 16-19 june, , st. petersburg,
russia
13
• m. lisovich, s. bermudez, and s. b. wicker, "reconfiguration in
heterogeneous mobile wireless sensor networks" proceedings of the
international symposium on wireless pervasive computing , 7-9 may,
, santorini, greece.
• m. lisovich and s. b. wicker, “privacy concerns in upcoming residential
and commercial demand-response systems,” clemson power systems
conference , march
• c. bennett, j. cardell, s. wicker. "residential demand response wireless
sensor network". proceedings of the fourth annual carnegie mellon
conference on the electricity industry, carnegie mellon university
department of electrical engineering, 5, march, .
• s. jiang, y. cao, s. iyengar, p. kuryloski, r. jafari, y. xue, r. bajcsy, s.
wicker. "carenet: an integrated wireless sensor networking
environment for remote healthcare," proceedings of the 3rd international
conference on body area networks (bodynets ), march 13-15,
.
• t. roosta, s. pai, p. chen, s. s. sastry, s. wicker, "the inherent security of
routing protocols in ad-hoc and sensor networks," proceedings of the 50th
annual ieee global communications conference (ieee globecom'07),
26-30 november , washington, dc.
• h. inaltekin, c. tavoularis and s. b. wicker, “event detection time
calculations for mobile sensor networks using first passage processes,” ieee
global communications conference, washington, dc, nov .
• h. inaltekin and s. b. wicker, “random access game over noisy channels
with capture effect,” 10th acm international symposium on modeling,
analysis and simulation of wireless and mobile systems, crete island,
greece, oct .
• h. inaltekin and s. b. wicker, "random access games: selfish nodes with
incomplete information", proceedings of ieee milcom , orlando,
florida.
• c. tavoularis and s. b. wicker, “optimal sleep strategies with respect to
traffic patterns in wireless sensor networks,” proceedings of the ieee
international conference on communications (icc ‘07), scotland.
• p. kuryloski, s. pai, s. wicker, y. xue, "medsn system for in-home patient
monitoring: architecture, privacy and security" proceedings of the joint
conference on high confidence medical devices, software, and systems
14
(hcmdss'07) and medical device plug-and-play interoperability (md
pnp'07), 25-27 june , boston, ma.
• h. inaltekin and s.b. wicker, "random access game under incomplete
information", 4th workshop on embedded networked sensors .
• h. inaltekin, t. wexler, s.b. wicker, "a duopoly pricing game for
wireless ip services", proceedings of the fourth annual ieee
communications society conference on sensor, mesh and ad hoc
communications and networks (secon ), june 18 – 21, , san
diego, ca.
• h. inaltekin and s. b. wicker, "the behavior of unbounded path-loss
models and the effect of singularity on computed network interference",
proceedings of the fourth annual ieee communications society
conference on sensor, mesh and ad hoc communications and networks
(secon ), june 18 – 21, , san diego, ca.
• s. pai, p. kuryloski, h. yip, s. yennamandra, s. wicker, k. boehner, and g.
gay, “networks of sensors in public spaces: combining technology with
art,” proceedings of ieee international symposium on ubiquitous computing
and intelligence (uciʼ07), 21-23 may , niagara falls, ontario, canada.
• s. pai, t. roosta, s. wicker, and s. s. sastry, “using social network theory
towards development of wireless ad hoc network trust,” proceedings of
3rd ieee international symposium on security in networks and distributed
systems (ssnds'07), 21-23 may , niagara falls, ontario, canada.
• h. inaltekin and s. b. wicker, "the analysis of a game theoretic mac
protocol for wireless networks", third annual ieee communications
society conference on sensor, mesh and ad hoc communications and
networks (secon ), september 25 – 28, reston, va.
• hui qu and stephen b. wicker, “anchor-free localization in rapidly-
deployed wireless sensor networks,” in proc. of ieee international
conference on mobile ad hoc and sensor systems (mass), pp. 627--
632.
• hui qu and stephen b. wicker, “a combined localization and location-
based routing algorithm for rapidly-deployable wireless sensor networks,”
presented in the 2nd international symposium on innovations and real-
time applications of distributed sensor networks, crystal city,
washington dc, usa, october 16, .
h. inalketin, s. b. wicker, “a one-shot random access game for
•
wireless networks,” the international conference on wireless networks,
15
communications, and mobile computing (wirelesscom ), june 13-
16, , maui, hawaii.
• x. zhang, s. b. wicker "robustness vs. efficiency in sensor networks,”,
proceedings of information processing in sensor networks (ipsn), berkeley,
.
• x. zhang, s. b. wicker "robustness vs. efficiency for the quadratic gaussian
ceo problem,” allerton conference, .
• p. samar and s.b. wicker, "characterizing the communication links of a
node in a mobile ad hoc network," proceedings of icc , paris, france.
x. zhang, s. b. wicker "how to distribute sensors in a random field,"
•
proceedings of information processing in sensor networks (ipsn), berkeley,
.
• m. roth, s. wicker, “route filtering in swarm intelligent manets,” tenth
annual international conference on mobile computing and networking
(mobicom), philadelphia, usa, .
• p. samar and s.b. wicker, "on the behavior of communication links of a
node in a multi-hop mobile environment," accepted for presentation at the
fifth acm international symposium on mobile ad hoc networking and
computing (mobihoc), tokyo, japan, .
y. mourtada and s. wicker, "lgma: localized gradient management
•
algorithm for mobile wireless sensor networks," proceedings of the
symposium on defense & security, april 04.
• m. roth, s.wicker, “termite: emergent ad-hoc networking,” proceedings of
the second mediterranean workshop on ad-hoc networks, medhia, tunisia,
.
j. chen, x. zhang, t. berger and s. b. wicker "rate allocation in distributed
•
sensor network", proceedings of the allerton conference .
• m. roth, s. wicker, termite: ad-hoc networking with stigmergy, ieee
globecomm , san francisco, usa, .
• sakk, e. and wicker, s.b., wavelet packets for error control coding,
proceedings of the spie 48th annual meeting (wavelets x), san diego, ca,
august 3-8, .
• a. b. mackenzie and s. b. wicker, "stability of slotted aloha with multipacket
reception and selfish users," proceedings of infocom .
16
• b. krishnamachari, y. mourtada, and s. wicker, "the energy-robustness
tradeoff for routing in wireless sensor networks," proceedings of ieee
international conference on communications, icc , anchorage,
alaska, may .
• y. mourtada, m. swanson, and s. wicker, "statistical performance analysis
of address-centric performance versus data-centric directed diffusion
approach in wireless sensor networks," aerosense symposium on
battlespace digitization and network centric systems iii, april .
• yurong chen and stephen b. wicker, on selection of optimal transmission
power for ad hoc networks, proceedings of the hawaii international
conference on system science (hicss-36), big island, hawaii, jan. 6-9,
.
• y. mourtada, and s. wicker, "on the effect on robustness of topological
factors in wireless sensor networks", proceedings of the workshop on
mobile and wireless networks mwn , december .
• ewald hueffmeier, janak sodha, and stephen b. wicker, "on the
termination of the bcjr algorithm," proceedings of the third international
symposium on communication systems, networks and digital signal
processing, staffordshire, england, 15-17 july .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, deborah estrin, stephen wicker, ``the impact of
data aggregation in wireless sensor networks," international workshop on
distributed event-based systems, (debs '02), held in conjunction with ieee
icdcs, vienna, austria, july .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, ramon bejar, and stephen b. wicker, "distributed
problem solving and the boundaries of self-configuration in multi-hop
wireless networks" hawaii international conference on system sciences
(hicss-35), january .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, stephen b. wicker, and ramon bejar, "phase
transition phenomena in wireless ad-hoc networks" proceedings of
symposium on ad-hoc wireless networks, globecom2001, san antonio,
texas, november .
• a. b. mackenzie and s. b. wicker, "game theory in communications:
motivation, explanation, and application to power control," proceedings of
globecom , san antonio, texas, november .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, rung-hung gau, stephen b. wicker, and zygmunt
j. haas, "on the performance of sequential paging for mobile user
location," proceedings of the ieee vehicular technology conference (vtc
fall ), atlantic city, new jersey, october .
17
• deepak ganesan, bhaskar krishnamachari, alec woo, david culler, deborah
estrin, and stephen wicker, "large-scale network discovery: design
tradeoffs in wireless sensor systems," student poster presented at the 18th
acm symposium on operating system principles, banff, canada, october
.
• a. b. mackenzie and s. b. wicker, "selfish users in aloha: a game-
theoretic approach," proceedings of ieee vehicular technology conference
(vtc fall ), atlantic city, new jersey, october .
• sakk, e., wicker, s.b., "finite field wavelet packets for error control
coding", proceedings of 39th annual allerton conference on communication,
control and computing, urbana-champaign, il, october .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, ramon bejar, and stephen b. wicker, "distributed
constraint satisfaction and the bounds on resource allocation in wireless
networks" proceedings of the sixth international symposium on
communications theory & application (iscta01), ambleside, uk, july .
• gomes, c. p., wicker, s. b., xie, x., and selman, b., "a connection between
phase transitions in complexity and good decoding," proceedings of the
international symposium on information theory and its applications,
honolulu, hawaii, november 5 – 8, .
• bhaskar krishnamachari, and stephen wicker, "fixed network design in
cellular systems using local search algorithms," proceedings of the ieee
vehicular technology conference, boston, massachusetts, september .
• z. haas, j. y. halpern, l. li, and s. b. wicker, “a decision-theoretic approach
to resource allocation in wireless multimedia networks,” proceedings of dial
m for mobility, , pp. 86-95.
• bhaskar krishnamachari, xi xie, bart selman, and stephen wicker, "analysis
of random walk and random noise algorithms for satisfiability testing,"
sixth international conference on principles and practice of constraint
programming (cp ), singapore, september (lecture notes in
computer science, vol. 1894, springer-verlag, september ).
• m. e. buckley, m. g. ramos, s. h. hemami, and s. b. wicker, "perceptually-
based robust image transmission over wireless channels," proceedings of
the international conference on image processing, vancouver, b.c.,
september 10-13, .
• m. e. buckley, b. krishnamachari, j. hagenauer, and s. b. wicker,
"improving turbo decoding via cross-entropy minimization," proceedings of
the ieee international symposium on information theory, sorrento, italy,
june 25-30, .
18
• x. xie and s. b. wicker, "solving large scale channel allocation problems
with splitting algorithms," accepted for presentation at icc , new
orleans, louisiana, june 18-22, .
• b. krishnamachari and s. wicker, "experimental analysis of local search
algorithms for optimal base station location," proceedings of the
international conference on evolutionary computing for computer,
communication, control and power (eccap ), chennai, india, january
.
• s. kim and s. b. wicker, "improved turbo decoding through belief
propagation," proceedings of the ieee global communications conference,
rio de janeiro, brazil, december 5-9, .
• j. i. park, y. choi, s. b. wicker, and h. l. owen, "trellis based turbo
equalization techniques for mobile radio receiver," proceedings of the
international conference on telecommunication, cheju, korea, jun. 15,
- jun. 18, .
• j. kosmach and s. b. wicker, "reconfigurable two-stage trellis decoding
for reed-solomon codes," proceedings of the international conference on
communications, june 6 - 10, , vancouver, b.c. canada.
• j. kosmach and s. b. wicker, "algebraic-sequential reed-solomon trellis
decoding," proceedings of the ieee vehicular technology conference, may
16 - 20, , houston, texas.
• t. fine, s. b. wicker, t. berger, and j. halpern, "sensor-assisted multiple
access protocols for wireless networks, " proceedings of the
international conference on universal personal communications, florence,
italy, october 5 - 9, .
• s. kim and s. b. wicker, "an exploration of the relationship between the
baum-welch algorithm and turbo decoding, " proceedings of the
international symposium on information theory, boston, ma, august 16-21,
.
• t. fine, s. b. wicker, t. berger, and j. halpern, "sensor-assisted aloha for
wireless networks, " proceedings of the international symposium on
information theory, boston, ma, august 16-21, .
• j. i. park, s. b. wicker, and h. l. owen, “soft output adaptive equalization
for gmsk mobile radio,” proceedings of the ieee globecom ‘97, phoenix,
arizona, november 4 - 8, .
• s. b. wicker and j. j. kosmach, “advances in the soft decision decoding of
reed-solomon codes,” proceedings of the ieee pacific rim
19
conference for communications, computers, and signal processing,
victoria, british columbia, august 20 - 22, .
• a. luna and s. b. wicker, “on decreasing the complexity of trellis decoding
for block codes” proceedings of the fourth international symposium on
communication theory and applications, ambleside, u. k., july 13 - 18,
.
• p. coulton, b. honary, m. darnell, and . b. wicker, "application of turbo
codes to hf data transmission," proceedings of the seventh
international conference on hf radio systems and techniques,
nottingham, u. k., july 7 - 10, .
• i. martin, b. honary, g. markarian, and s. b. wicker, “trellis based type-ii
hybrid arq protocols for reed-muller codes” proceedings of the
ieee international symposium on information theory, ulm, germany, june
29 - july 4, .
• m.-j. hao, s. b. wicker, “reed-solomon error control coding in
multichannel fsk coherent lightwave systems” proceedings of the
ieee international symposium on information theory, ulm, germany, june
29 - july 4, .
• park, j. i., wicker, s. b., and owen, h. l., “soft output equalization
techniques for π/4-dqpsk mobile radio,” proceedings of the ieee
international conference on communications, montreal, quebec, june 8 -
12,
• a. luna and s. b. wicker, “sequential ml trellis decoding for block codes”
proceedings of the conference on information sciences and systems,
baltimore, maryland, march 19 - 21, .
• park, j.-i., wicker, s. b., and owen, h. l., "tdma cellular soft output
adaptive equalization based on the modified-map algorithm," proceedings of
international phoenix conference on computers and communications,
phoenix, pp. 557-562, february, .
• park, j.-i., wicker, s. b., and owen, h. l.,"concatenation of mlse equalizer
and viterbi decoder for tdma cellular systems," pp. 723-727, proceedings
of milcom, mclean, virginia, october .
• wang, x.-a., and wicker, s. b., “the design and implementation of optimal
trellis decoders for some bch codes,” proceedings of the
international symposium on information theory and its applications, pp.
700 - 703, victoria, b. c., canada, september 17 - 20, .
• wang, x.-a., and wicker, s. b., “recent results: the design and
implementation of optimal trellis decoders for some bch codes,” abstracts,
20
ieee information theory workshop, pg. 73, haifa, israel, june 9 - 13,
.
• tapp, t., wang, x.-a., and wicker, s. b., “soft decision hybrid-arq error
control for mobile data networks,” proceedings of the international
conference on communications technology, pp. 756 - 759.
beijing, china, may 5 - 7, .
• hao, m. j., and wicker, s. b., “the effect of error control coding in
multichannel fsk coherent lightwave communication systems”
proceedings of the iee international conference on
telecommunications, pp. 398 - 405, istanbul, turkey, april 14 - 17, .
• souissi, s., and wicker, s. b., “dynamic performance of a random access,
code combining cdma system,” proceedings of the sixth ieee
international symposium on personal, indoor, and mobile radio
communications, toronto, canada, september 27 - 29, .
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b., “a soft output decoding algorithm for
concatenated systems,” proceedings of ieee international symposium on
information theory, pg. 475, whistler, british columbia, canada,
september 17 - 22, .
• zaidan, m. y., barnes, c., and wicker, s. b., “tree-structure trellis codes,”
proceedings of ieee international symposium on information theory,
pg. 185, whistler, british columbia, canada, september 17 - 22, .
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b., “an artificial neural net viterbi decoder,”
proceedings of ieee international symposium on information theory,
pg. 173, whistler, british columbia, canada, september 17 - 22, .
• tapp, t., wang, x.-a., and wicker, s. b., “soft decision decoders for mobile
data networks,” proceedings of the jamaican conference on
communications, pp. 36 - 39, ocho rios, jamaica, august 18 - 20, .
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b. “a neuralized viterbi decoder, proceedings of
the 3rd international symposium on communication theory and applications,
ambleside, england, 10 - 14 july, .
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b. “generation and performance of efficient soft
outputs in viterbi decoding,” proceedings of the seventh joint swedish-
russian international workshop on information theory, pp. 248 - 253, st.
petersburg, russia, june 17 - 22, .
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b. “viterbi decoding with soft outputs and
adaptive decoding depth,” proceedings of the conference on information
sciences and systems, pp. 37 - 43, the johns hopkins university,
march 22 - 24, .
21
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b. “generalized soft decision decoding for
concatenated systems,” proceedings of the 3rd uk/australian international
symposium on dsp for communication systems, coventry, uk, 12 - 14
december, .
• alabbadi, m., and wicker, s. b., “a digital signature scheme based on
linear block codes,” proceedings of asiacrypt’94, sydney, australia,
november 28 - december 1, .
• souissi, s., and wicker, s. b., “performance analysis of a random access,
direct sequence, packet combining, code division multiple access
system,” communications theory mini- conference ‘94 (globecom ‘94),
san francisco, ca, november 27 - december 1, .
• alabbadi, m., and wicker, s. b., “combined data encryption and reliability
using mceliece’s public key cryptosystem,” proceedings of the
international symposium on information theory and its applications, pp.
263 - 268, sydney, australia, november 20-25, .
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “a performance analysis for tcm diversity
receivers using two different diversity combining techniques,”
proceedings of the ieee personal, indoor, and mobile radio
commmunications conference, the hague, netherlands, september 19 –
23, .
• souissi, s. and wicker, s. b., “packet combining error control for cdma
systems,” proceedings of the ieee third international symposium on
spread spectrum techniques and applications, pp. 248-252, july 4 - 6,
, oulu, finland.
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “susceptibility of digital signature schemes
based on error-correcting codes to universal forgery,” proceedings of the
ieee international symposium of information theory, pg. 494, june 27
- july 1, , trondheim, norway.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “performance approximation for trellis
coded diversity receivers over slowly fading rayleigh channels,”
proceedings of the ieee international symposium of information
theory, pg. 25, june 27 - july 1, , trondheim, norway.
• souissi, s. and wicker, s. b., “a diversity combining ds/cdma system with
convolutional encoding and viterbi decoding,” proceedings of the
ieee international conference on communications, pp. , may 1
- 5, , new orleans, louisiana.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., "a comparison of two error-detection
22
schemes for trellis coded hybrid-arq protocols", proceedings of the
second international symposium on dsp in communication systems, 26- 29
april, , adelaide, south australia.
• rasmussen, l., bartz, m., and wicker, s. b., "a comparison of trellis coded
and reed-solomon coded hybrid-arq protocols over slowly fading
channels", proceedings of the international conference on universal
wireless access, 18 - 19 april, , melbourne, south australia.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “a performance analysis of trellis coded,
hybrid-arq protocols based on crc error-detecting codes,” proceedings
of the ieee global communications conference, pp. 86-90, houston,
texas, december .
• souissi, slim and wicker, s. b., "application of packet combining
techniques to a ds/cdma system using convolutional encoding and
sequential decoding", proceedings of the second uk-cis international
symposium on communication theory and its applications,, pp. 167-174,
july 12 - 16, , charlotte mason college, ambleside, lake district,
united kingdom.
• bartz, m. and wicker, s. b., “type-i and type-ii reed-muller hybrid-arq
protocols” proceedings of the ieee international communications
conference, pp. 1515-1520, may 23 - 26, , geneva, switzerland.
• rasmussen, l. and wicker, s. b., “a performance analysis of trellis coded,
adaptive rate hybrid-arq protocols over awgn channels,” proceedings of
the international symposium on information theory, pg. 384, san
antonio, texas, january 17 - 22, .
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “digital signature schemes based on error-
correcting codes,” proceedings of the international symposium on
information theory, pg. 199, san antonio, texas, january 17 - 22, .
• rasmussen, l. k. and wicker, s. b., “a performance analysis of trellis
coded hybrid-arq protocols in a fading environment,” proceedings of the
ieee global telecommunications conference, orlando, florida,
december 6 - 9, .
• wicker, s. b. and alabbadi, m., “integrated security and error control for
communication networks using the mceliece cryptosystem,” proceedings
of the ieee international carnahan conference on security
technology, pp. 172 - 178, atlanta, georgia, october 14 - 16, .
• harvey, b. a. and wicker, s. b., “packet combining systems based on the
viterbi decoder,” proceedings of the ieee military communications
conference, pp. 757 - 761, san diego, california, october 11 - 14, .
23
• rasmussen, l. k. and wicker, s. b., “a performance analysis for trellis
coded hybrid-arq protocols,” proceedings of the ieee
communications conference, pp. 647 - 651, chicago, illinois, june 14 - 17,
.
• wicker, s. b., “adaptive rate convolutional coding using the viterbi
decoder,” proceedings of the international winter meeting on coding and
information theory, p. 25 (summary), essen, germany, december 15 - 17.
.
• wicker, s. b., “a reed-solomon hybrid-arq protocol with erasure
decoding for mobile communication networks,” proceedings of the
international symposium on personal, indoor, and mobile radio
communications, london, england, september 23 - 24, .
• wicker, s. b. and rice, m., “a sequential testing scheme for adaptive error
control on slowly varying channels” proceedings of the international
symposium on theory, budapest, hungary, pg. 30, june 23 - 28, .
• cornett, k. g. and wicker, s. b., “bit error rate estimation techniques for
digital mobile radios,” proceedings of the 41st annual ieee vehicular
technology conference, st. louis, missouri, may 19 - 22, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control coding for data transmission
over personal communication networks,” proceedings of the ieee
southeastcon , williamsburg, virginia, pp. 437 - 441, april 7 - 10, .
• rice, m. d. and wicker, s. b., “adaptive rate coding for slowly varying
channels.” proceedings of the sbt/ieee international
telecommunications symposium, rio de janerio, brazil, pp. 176 - 180,
september 3 - 6, .
• wicker, s. b., “trellis coded hybrid-arq error control,” proceedings of the
bilkent international conference on new trends in communications,
control, and signal processing, ankara turkey, pp. 339 - 346, july, 2 .
• harvey a. b. and wicker, s. b., “error-trapping viterbi decoding in a type-i
hybrid-arq protocol,” proceedings of the ieee international
conference on communications, atlanta, georgia, pp. 332.5.1 - 332.5.5,
april 16 - 19, .
• rice, m. d. and wicker, s. b., “modified majority-logic decoding of cyclic
block codes,” proceedings of the ieee international conference on
communications, atlanta, georgia, pp. 332.3.1 - 332.3.5, april 16 - 19, .
• wicker, s. b. and harvey b., “error-trapping viterbi decoding in type-i
hybrid-arq protocols” international symposium on theory, san
diego, california, paper wa2-6, january 17, .
24
• wicker, s. b., “adaptive rate coding using reed-solomon codes in a
hybrid-arq protocol,” proceedings of the international symposium on
signals, systems, and electronics, nürnberg, west germany, pp. 642 - 645,
september 18, .
• wicker, s. b. “hybrid-arq reed-solomon coding in an adaptive rate
system,” proceedings of the ieee international conference on
communications, boston, massachusetts, pp. 45.5.1 - 45.5.5, june 11,
.
• wicker, s. b., “an error control technique for high data rate
communication networks,” proceedings of the ieee infocom
conference, ottawa, ontario, pp. 594 - 601, april 25, .
• wicker, s. b., “an adaptive type-i hybrid-arq technique using the viterbi
decoding algorithm,” proceedings of the ieee military communications
conference, san diego, california, pp. 15.5.1 - 15.5.5, october 23, .
• wicker, s. b., “cyclic codes and rational curves,” international
symposium on information theory, kobe, japan, paper number mc7-2,
june 19, .
• wicker, s. b. and welch, l. r., “the geometry of mds codes,” proceedings
of the ieee pacific rim conference for communications, computers,
and signal processing, victoria, british columbia, pp. 89 - 92, june 4, .
invited conference papers
• wicker, s. b., "markov chains, error control, and the advent of turbo
coding," ima workshop on codes, systems and graphical models,
minneapolis, mn, august 2-13, .
• buckley, m. e. and wicker, s. b., " optimization, neural networks, and turbo
decoding," proceedings of the fifth international symposium on
communication theory and applications, ambleside, u. k., july 12 - 16,
.
• kim, s. and wicker, s. b., “a connection between the baum-welch
algorithm and turbo decoding,” proceedings of the information theory
workshop, killarney, ireland, june 22-26, .
• wicker, s. b., “error control in space applications,” central section
meeting of the american mathematical society, chicago, illinois, march 24 -
25, .
• wicker, s. b., “error control techniques for voice and data communications
over cellular mobile channels,” proceedings of the allerton conference on
25
communication, control, and computing, pp. 444 - 453, september 28 –
30, .
• wicker, s. b. and alabbadi, m., “susceptibility of digital signature schemes
based on error-correcting codes to universal forgery,” workshop on
information protection, moscow, russia, december 6 - 9, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, proceedings of the international conference on selected
topics in wireless communication, pp. 76 - 79, vancouver, british
columbia, canada, june 25 - 26, .
• wicker, s. b., “type-ii hybrid-arq protocols using punctured reed-
solomon codes,” proceedings of the ieee military communications
conference, mclean, virginia, pp. 52.2.1 - 52.2.6, november 4 - 6, .
• wicker, s. b., “an adaptive rate coding system based on the use of
majority-logic decoding in a hybrid-arq protocol,” proceedings of the
ieee military communications conference, boston, massachusetts, pp.
29.6.1 - 29.6.6, october 15, .
invited seminar presentations
• vanderbilt university, march
• carnegie mellon university, april
• indian institute of technology, kanpur, january .
• indian institute of technology, new delhi, january .
• chalmers university, sweden, september .
• queens university, canada, may .
• mcmaster university, canada, february .
• university of the west indies, barbados, december, .
• dartmouth college, october, .
• university of the west indies, barbados, december, .
• wicker, s. b., "evolutionary game theory and self-configuring wireless
networks," ucla, los angeles, ca, november 2, .
• wicker, s. b., "optimization, neural networks, and turbo decoding,"
university of ulm, germany, july 23, .
• wicker, s. b., "optimization, neural networks, and turbo decoding,"
technical university of munich, germany, june 16, .
• wicker, s. b., "the baum-welch algorithm and turbo decoding,"
technical university of denmark, copenhagen, march 20, .
• wicker, s. b., “maximum likelihood sequential soft decision decoding for
block codes,” jet propulsion laboratory/caltech, pasadena, california,
december 30, .
• wicker, s. b., “hard and soft decision decoders for the flex mobile
messaging protocol,” motorola paging division, fort worth, texas,
november 24, .
• wicker, s. b., “soft decision and turbo error control for wireless
26
multimedia networks,” motorola paging division, fort worth, texas,
november 24, .
• wicker, s. b., “turbo codes, bayesian networks, and the future of
telecommunications,” suny buffalo, department of electrical engineering,
may 23, .
• wicker, s. b., “soft decision trellis decoders for block codes: thoughts on
the state of the art,” lancaster university, lancaster, england , january 14,
.
• wicker, s. b., “introduction to the cornell wireless multimedia laboratory,”
distinguished seminar series, queen’s university, november 13, .
• wicker, s. b., “introduction to the cornell wireless multimedia laboratory,”
gtr corporate research and development, schenectady, new york,
september 26, .
• wicker, s. b., “enabling technologies for wireless multimedia systems,”
strathclyde university, glasgow, scotland, august 15, .
• wicker, s. b., “wireless technologies and the evolution toward
the universal mobile telecommunication system,” national technical
university of athens, athens, greece, september 4, .
• wicker, s. b., “wireless technologies and the evolution toward
the universal mobile telecommunication system,” university of athens,
department of telematics, athens, greece, september 5, .
• wicker, s. b., “wireless technologies and the evolution toward
the universal mobile telecommunication system,” telecommunications
systems institute, chania, crete, september 7, .
• wicker, s. b., “error control coding for mobile applications,” jet propulsion
laboratory, pasadena, california, october 18, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, lancaster university, lancaster, england, june 21,
.
• wicker, s. b., “intelligent systems for error control and security”, defense
science and technology organization, adelaide, south australia, may 2,
.
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, simon fraser university, british columbia, canada,
june 24, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, university of british columbia, vancouver, british
columbia, canada, june 23, .
• wicker, s. b., “adaptive error control using convolutional and trellis
codes”, university of victoria, victoria, british columbia, canada, june 22,
.
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, university of victoria, victoria, british columbia, canada,
june 19, .
• wicker, s. b., “reed-solomon error control systems for bidirectional
fading channels”, institute of communications technology, german
aerospace research establishment, oberpfaffenhofen, germany, february
4 - 6, .
27
• wicker, s. b., "the application of classical algebraic geometry to
error correcting codes," department of mathematics, university of puerto
rico, rio piedras, puerto rico, december 9 - 15, .
patents and patent applications
• ober, c, o’rourke, t, spencer, m., turner, j., wicker, s., “flexible substrate
sensor system for environmental and infrastructure monitoring”, pct wo
/140490, 20 november , assigned to cornell university.
• fontaine, f. and wicker, s., “method and apparatus for turbo decoding
block codes”, u.s. patent 7,243,288, june 10, , assigned to motorola.
• wicker, s. and fine, t., “sensor-assisted aloha multiple access”, u.s.
patent 6,404,750, june 11, , assigned to cornell university.
• wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b., “the analog neural net viterbi decoder,”
u.s. patent 5,548,684, august 20, , assigned to georgia institute of
technology.
• tapp, t., wang, x.-a. and wicker, s. b., “the soft decision (31,21) bch
decoder,” patent pending, assigned to mtel/skytel.
other publications
• alabbadi, m. and wicker, s. b., “integration of error correction, encryption,
and signature using linear error-correcting block codes,” ieee
information theory newsletter, volume 43, number 4, p. 10, december
.
• rasmussen, l. k. and wicker, s. b., “trellis coded adaptive rate hybrid-
arq protocols over awgn and slowly fading rician channels,” ieee
information theory newsletter, volume 43, number 4, p. 10, december
.
• harvey, b. a. and wicker, s. b., “adaptive rate convolutional coding using
the viterbi decoder,” ieee information theory newsletter, volume 41,
number 3, p. 15, september .
• rice, m. d. and wicker, s. b., “adaptive error control over slowly varying
channels,” ieee information theory newsletter, volume 41, number 2, p.
20, june .
28
funded research projects1
 tc: privacy-aware design strategies for mobile communications and
computing,” national science foundation, $500,000, june 15, –
june 14, .
 “stc: team for research in ubiquitous secure technology (trust),”
national science foundation, $20,000,000, september 15, -
september 15, .
 “nets-noss: nets - noss: ultra low-power, self-configuring, wireless
sensor networks,” national science foundation, $2,000,000, september
15, - september 15, .
• “itr: self-configuring sensor networks for disaster mitigation and
recovery,” national science foundation, $2,500,000, september 15,
-- september 15, .
• “sensors: the reachback channel in wireless sensor networks,” (pi:
sergio sevetto), national science foundation. september 15, --
september 15, .
• “the ad hoc classroom: integrating emerging wireless communications and
networking technologies into mainstream computer science and electrical
engineering curricula,” national science foundation-crcd, (pi: gun sirer),
$410,000, – .
• “the ad hoc classroom: integrating emerging wireless communications and
networking technologies into mainstream computer science and electrical
engineering curricula,” microsoft, (pi: gun sirer), $75,000, – .
• “the ad hoc classroom: integrating emerging wireless communications and
networking technologies into mainstream computer science and electrical
engineering curricula,” hewlett packard, (pi: gun sirer), $20,000, –
.
• "self-configuring wireless sensor networks," darpa ito, $900,000, june
1, - may 31, .
• “soft decision decoders for wireless systems,” motorola, $84,000,
september 15, – september 15, .
• “sensor-assisted wireless multimedia systems,” national science
foundation grant ncr-9725251, $862,465, september 15, - august
31, (with terrence fine and joseph halpern).
1 principal investigator is stephen wicker unless otherwise noted.
29
• “coded diversity combining and channel estimation for wireless data
communications,” national science foundation grant ncr-9706592,
$ 246,636, september 15, - august 31, (with zygmunt haas).
• at&t/lucent technologies foundation, special purpose grant, $15,000,
november 20, .
• “adaptive code division multiple access systems,” national science
foundation grant number grant ncr-9505887, $ 236,855, september 15,
- august 31,
• “data transport on cellular telephone systems,” mobile
telecommunication technologies international, $110,000, july 1, -
june 30, .
• “european data transfer protocols,” mobile telecommunication
technologies international, $92,000, july 1, - june 30, .
• "soft decision decoding for block codes using artificial neural networks,"
national science foundation grant number ncr-9216686, $140,000,
september 15, - march 14, .
• “adaptive bandwidth-efficient coding for nonstationary channels,” national
science foundation grant ncr-9016276, $102,000, september 15, -
march 14, .
• “cellular mobile telephony laboratory,” mitsubishi consumer electronics,
$500,000 (equipment), may 29, .
• “adaptive coding on nonstationary communication channels with
feedback,” national science foundation grant ncr-9009877, $85,000,
september 15, - september 14, .
• “young faculty grant,” general electric, $10,000, july 15, - july 14,
.
• “cellular radio diversity simulation study,” bell south mobility, coprincipal
investigator: gordon l. stuber, $60,000, march 25, - june 25, .
• “an investigation of message handling in post era,” u. s. army signal
center, fort gordon, coprincipal investigator: douglas w. browning,
$137,161, january 10, - december 31, .
• “cellular radio simulation and coding study,” bell south mobility, $35,000,
december 15, - march 15, .
• “cellular radio spectrum study,” bell south mobility, $30,000, september
30
25, - december 15, .
• “the algebraic foundations of digital communication,” at&t foundation,
$25,000, july 7, - july 6, .
• “cellular radio spectrum study,” bell south mobility, $45,000, june 15,
- september 15, .
• “cellular radio spectrum study,” bell south mobility, $40,000, march 15,
- june 15, .
• “communication system simulation software package,” space and
communications group, hughes aircraft company, $200,000 (software),
february 1, .
service
institute of electrical and electronic engineers (ieee)
• elected to board of governors, ieee information theory society,
– , re-elected for .
• information theory society representative to ieee committee on new
technology directions
defense advanced research projects agency (darpa)
• member, information science and technology study group, – .
journals
• editor, acm transactions on sensor networks, - present.
• editor, special issue on ad hoc networks, volume 2, ieee journal on
special areas in communications, .
• editor, special issue on sensor networking, ieee journal on special
areas in communications, .
• editor, special issue on ad hoc networks, ieee journal on special areas in
communcations, .
• editor, special issue on energy-aware ad hoc wireless networks,
ieee wireless communications, august .
• editor for coding theory and techniques, ieee transactions on
communications, march, - march .
31
• reviewer for numerous journals, conferences, national and international
funding agencies, and textbook publishers.
conference organization
• chair, technical program committee, fifth international symposium on
information processing in sensor networks (ipsn ), nashville,
tennessee.
• member, technical program committee, international conference on
distributed computing in sensor networks (dcoss ‘06).
• member, technical program committee, fourth international symposium
on information processing in sensor networks (ipsn ), berkeley,
california.
• member, technical program committee, conference on innovations and
commercial applications of distributed sensor networks, bethesda, md,
october 18 –19, .
• member, technical program committee, second ieee international
conference on sensor and ad hoc communications and networks
(secon ).
• member, organizing committee, first ieee conference on sensor
networks: applications, protocols and technology (snapt ).
• member, technical program committee, first annual ieee communications
society conference on sensor and ad hoc communications and networks,
santa clara ca, october .
• member, technical program committee, third international symposium on
information processing in sensor networks (ipsn '04), berkeley, california,
usa april 26-27,
member, organizing committee, 7th international symposium on
•
communication theory and applications, ambleside, england,
member, technical program committee, first ieee international workshop
•
on
sensor network protocols and applications, may 11, , anchorage, ak.
• chair, ieee information theory society symposia and workshops
committee, .
32
• organizing committee, 6th international symposium on communication
theory and applications, ambleside, england,
• member, international advisory committee, international symposium on
information theory and its applications, honolulu, november 5 - 8, .
• technical program committee, ieee wireless communications &
networking conference (wcnc), new orleans, la, sep. 22 - 27, .
• organizing committee, 5th international symposium on communication
theory and applications, ambleside, england, 10-14 july,
• technical program committee, international symposium on information
theory and applications, mexico city, mexico, october 14 - 16, .
• chaired “arq and wireless error control” session at the international
symposium on information theory, boston, ma, august 16-21, .
• organizing committee, 4th international symposium on communication
theory and applications, ambleside, england, 11 - 15 july,
• technical program committee, international symposium on information
theory and applications, victoria, british columbia, september 17-21, .
• organized and chaired “gus solomon memorial session” at ieee pacific
rim conference on communications, computers, and signal processing,
victoria, british columbia, august 20-22, .
• chaired “mobile communications” session at the international symposium
on information theory and applications, victoria, british columbia,
september 17-21, .
• chaired “advanced subsystems in wireless multimedia networks” session
at the japan-canada international workshop on multimedia wireless
communications and computing, victoria, british columbia, september 17,
.
• technical program committee, ieee vehicular technology conference,
atlanta, georgia, april 28 - may 1, .
• chaired “communication networks” session at the 3rd international
symposium on communication theory and applications, ambleside,
england, 10 - 14 july, .
• chaired “decoding problems” session at seventh joint swedish-russian
international workshop on information theory, st. petersburg, russia, june
17 - 22, .
33
• general chairman, wireless security workshop, metz, france, february 10 -
11, .
• u. s. representative, international advisory board, ieee international
symposium on information theory, whistler, british columbia, canada,
september 17 - 22, .
• chaired “coding and modulation” session at the 3rd uk/australian
international symposium on dsp for communication systems, warwick,
uk, 12 - 14 december, .
• chaired “error control techniques” session at ieee international
conference on communications, atlanta, georgia, april 16 - 19, .
university committees, cornell university
• chair, general recruiting committee, school of electrical and computer
engineering, ( – )
• member, university local advisory committee (appointed by faculty senate)
( – )
• member, faculty advisory board for information technology, (appointed by
faculty senate) ( )
• member, university intellectual property advisory committee, (appointed by
vp for research) ( - present)
• chairman, college of engineering curriculum governing board
(appointed) ( )
• chairman, electrical engineering curriculum and standards committee
(elected) ( )
• chairman, electrical engineering policy committee (elected) ( - )
• chairman, electrical engineering peoplesoft lab oversight committee
( - )
• member, college of engineering dean search committee ( - )
• member, college of engineering teaching award committee ( - )
• member, applied mathematics director search committee ( )
• member, associate dean search committee, .
• member, electrical engineering policy committee (elected) ( - )
• member, digital systems search committee ( - )
• member, college faculty advisory committee for associate dean for
professional development ( )
• chairman, several department and college ad hoc tenure and
promotion committees.
institute committees, georgia institute of technology
• institute statutory advisory committee (elected) ( )
• institute public relations committee (elected) ( )
• ece graduate curriculum committee ( )
34
• ece undergraduate curriculum committee ( )
• ece computer resources committee ( )
honors and awards
• fellow of the ieee,
• u.s. air force scientific advisory board,
• cornell university college of engineering teaching award,
• cornell school of ece teaching award,
• cornell university college of engineering teaching award,
• saic best paper award, , for “an artificial neural net viterbi
decoder” (with xiao-an wang)
• senior member, institute of electrical and electronic engineers.
elected january,
• visiting fellow, british columbia advanced systems institute.
awarded january .
• sigma xi, - present
• tau beta pi, - present
• eta kappa nu, - present
• omicron delta kappa, – present
35